

http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/two-die-30-fall-ill-after-eating-prasad-114011100600_1.html

Special Fares from India to Brisbane and Cairns.
Two die 30 fall ill after eating prasad
Two children died and 30 people fell ill from food poisoning at Maheshpur village in North Tripura district, about 200 km from here, police sources said today.  A villager who performed puja on Thurday after his cow died distributed khichdi as prasad to the villagers, the sources said.  Altogether 32 people, including children and women, fell ill after eating the prasad.  They were admitted to the district hospital at Dharmanagar yesterday where two children died last night, they added. Two children died and 30 people fell ill from food poisoning at Maheshpur village in North Tripura district, about 200 km from here, police sources said today.
A villager who performed puja on Thurday after his cow died distributed khichdi as prasad to the villagers, the sources said.
Altogether 32 people, including children and women, fell ill after eating the prasad.
They were admitted to the district hospital at Dharmanagar yesterday where two children died last night, they added.
Latest News




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mangalore/District-health-authorities-wake-up-to-malaria-deaths-of-children/articleshow/28691003.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Mangaluru
Breaking News:
District health authorities wake up to malaria deaths of children
Jaideep Shenoy Jaideep Shenoy,TNN | Jan 11, 2014, 11.11 PM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
MANGALORE: District health and family welfare Dr H S Shivakumar and district malaria officer Dr Arun Kumar on Friday visited the house of Taniyappa Mugera in Shishila of Belthangady taluk that saw two children succumb to malaria. While Harinakshi, 10 had succumbed to the disease on Tuesday, her brother Ajith, 8, died on Thursday. District surveillance officer Dr Rajesh B V had confirmed that these children had died due to malaria.
The DHO examined the areas in and around the house where the children resided. They even examined a rivulet that flows by close to the house. Later, the health officials interacted with the villagers and informed them on the steps that need to be taken to ensure that malaria does not spread. Villagers were asked to ensure that there is no stagnant source of water in the vicinity of their homes. A health check up camp was conducted for the children.
A team of CPI workers too visited the house of Taniyappa Mugera at Shishila village on Saturday on directions from physician B Srinivas Kakkilaya. Taniyappa informed the team that no one in the near vicinity of his house is suffering from malaria and that when his children were down with fever; they were immediately taken to the primary health centre in Belthangady and admitted there for treatment.
Noting that the blood samples were not tested at the PHC, Taniyappa said he subsequently shifted the children to District Government Wenlock Hospital for treatment. However, their subsequent deaths has come as a shock to the family, Taniyappa said adding that lack of proper medical advise at the PHC has resulted in this incident. The reports given at the PHC indicated hepatitis, Taniyappa informed the activists.
P Sanjeeva, secretary of the district unit of CPI said the immediate vicinity of Taniyappa's household is clean and chances of malaria originating from there are remote. Blaming the doctors at the PHC for their negligence, Sanjeeva said the move to collect fee to test their blood, although the family is covered with a BPL card is inhuman. Demanding a thorough probe, the party sought maximum compensation to the family of the deceased.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://zeenews.india.com/news/jammu-and-kashmir/girl-dies-five-fall-ill-after-food-poisoning-in-jandk_903332.html

Girl dies, five fall ill after food poisoning in J&K
Last Updated: Saturday, January 11, 2014 - 16:06
0
Comment
Srinagar: A teenage girl died and five others fell ill due to suspected food poisoning when an occultist had come to a house for exorcising ritual in Pulwama district of Kashmir.
The 15-year-old girl, Rohi Jan, and five others, including her father, mother, the occultist and his assistant, were lying unconscious in the house in Bohu village of Awanitpora area, 35 kms from here, this morning, police said.
They were rushed to a hospital where Rohi was declared brought dead.
The occultist, Nazir Ahmad, had come to the house of Mohammad Shaban last night to exorcise 'evil' from his son Mudasir Ahmad, police said.
All the inmates except Mudasir were found unconscious this morning.
Police suspect it to be a case of food poisoning.
PTI
First Published: Saturday, January 11, 2014 - 16:06
TAGS:




http://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/hyderabad/Drug-resistant-TB-Cases-on-the-Rise-in-state/2014/01/13/article1997961.ece

Email 0
There is a steady increase in the number of drug-resistant tuberculosis (DRTB) cases in the state. The state TB department detected 550 DRTB cases in 2011, 1,300 in 2012 and 2,200 in 2013. Officials say that increasing number of people are found to be negligent about following prescribed treatment procedure. Irregular treatment and inadequate doses are other factors which are adding to the problem.
“Usually, treatment for tuberculosis (TB) should be continued for a period of six months. Some patients stop the medication after one and a half months on feeling healthy. But the bacteria will be still surviving in the patient’s body if treatment is discontinued. It leads to recurrence of the disease,” says T Rani Samyukta, TB officer.
“ When a patient approaches the doctor again for treatment, a different dosage of drugs need to be given as the bacteria becomes immune to earlier medication. This condition of bacteria becoming resistance to drugs is called DRTB,” she says.
Rani Samyukta says that the increase in the number of DRTB cases is because of the upscale in their efforts to detect the cases. DRTB treatment and diagnosis was started in 2008 throughout India. “Since March 2013 we increased our operations which led to detection of more cases,” she says, indicating that the cases might have been dormant for a long time.
An official of the department says that TB cases need to be regularly notified to government for improved and continued treatment. If not notified, monitoring and tracking of patients becomes difficult because of which they cannot know whether a patient is continuing the treatment or not, which might increase DRTB cases, he says.




http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/tamil_nadu/Overflowing-Sewers-Triggers-Fears-of-Disease-Outbreak-in-Corpn-Ward-57/2014/01/13/article1997746.ece

Email 0
An overflowing drain and a blocked sewer on Vinayaka Temple Street here have been giving residents a nightmare as the street has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes that people fear a disease outbreak.
More than 700 families reside on the stretch behind Raman theatre, with oozing sewage, bad road and uncleared garbage. Though the residents had complained to the Corporation about their plight, the local body had failed to conduct an inspection on a regular basis.
“Most of the drains in the area are  clogged and sewage overflows on to the roads, posing health hazards to residents,” said E Murugan, 50, a rice-dealer in the locality. The residents in Ward 57 had made repeated representations to the Corporation, to no avail.
The road that connects Vinayaka Temple Street is also in a bad shape with the tarred portions worn out and replaced with gravel and mud, making it difficult for users, the residents said.
“There is no regular fogging activities undertaken by the civic authorities to control the mosquito menace. With no proper garbage collection facility, the residents are forced to dump garbage in the open land or alongside roads,” said R Lakshmi, a resident. The effluent from sewers stagnating in the drainage channels and on certain stretches of vacant plot in the colony. Coupled with that is the mosquito menace, the residents pointed out.
When contacted, B Mahalakshmi, Councillor, Ward 57, said,”We have been sanctioned `2 lakhs from the Corporation to repair the drainage system.’’ The work will commence by this month-end, she added




http://www.orissadiary.com/CurrentNews.asp?id=47251

Print Story
Rajanagar: About 200 people, including 15 children, belonging to four villages under Dangamal GP under Rajanagar block fell sick on Monday night after they ate a community feast organised by one Balai Singh of Khamarsahi village. They were rushed to nearby Dangamal PHC. Later two medical teams from the district headquarter hospital in Kendrapara also rushed to the spot and attended to the ailing villagers. However, the number of people affected may be nearly 200, stated some villagers contrary to the official reports.
CDMO Gyanendra Kumar Tripathy said food poisoning was due to illness. A medical team is camping at Dangamal and the situation is under control, Tripathy said.
Top Stories




http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Mangalore/official-number-of-malaria-deaths-incorrect-physician/article5585690.ece

malaria
Physician B. S. Kakkilaya alleged that officials were trying to 'hush up' the malaria deaths and downplaying the number of malaria cases in Mangalore district.
A city-based physician, who has worked for decades treating malaria, has said the death of two minors from Shishila and Belthangady, last week due to malaria could have been averted. He alleged that officials were trying to “hush up” the malaria deaths and downplaying the number of malaria cases in the district.
Referring to the terming, by a team of two doctors from Directorate of Health and Family Welfare, Bangalore, the deaths of the two minors a ‘freak incident’, physician B. S. Kakkilaya said the team’s claim that the minors succumbed to malaria as they had low resistance due to anaemia was absurd. Malaria was an infection and anaemia would not lead to malaria, he said. He said, “What do they mean by ‘freak’ incident?....Do you mean to say that everyone with anaemia will get malaria?”
In a press statement hosted on his website for malaria (http://www.malariasite.com), he said “anaemia in the two children was the result of severe malaria, rather than being the cause of malaria. Therefore, such a statement is not only false but also a blatant attempt to divert the attention from the lapses of the health authorities”.
He alleged that officials in the district were not recording the correct number of deaths due to malaria in the district.
Meanwhile, responding to it the district health officer denied that the number of malaria deaths issued by the government was lower than the actual number. H. S. Shivakumar, District health Officer (DHO), said the government got daily reports from private and government hospitals, which were analysed and sent to the State level.
When asked about the numbers going unreported, he said, “That’s his (Dr. Kakkilaya’s) imagination” and that he would discuss the issue with him.
Dr. Shivakumar said that it was not correct that anaemia could lead to malaria but malaria could lead to anaemia. He said the death of the two minors was “unfortunate” especially as the area they lived in was not a malaria-endemic area.
The Hindu called Bangalore doctors at several different points of time but did not get a response.




http://www.outlookindia.com/news/article/malariarelated-deaths-decrease-in-mizoram/825150

COMMENTS
Incidence of malaria and malaria-related deaths have gone down drastically during the past seven years in Mizoram with the death of 121 people in 2006 coming down to 20 last year suffering from the disease, state health department sources said today.
In a quarterly review meeting of malaria incidences held here, the officials said efforts were on to ensure 80 per cent of the population use medicated mosquito nets by 2017.
The officials also said the present coverage of DDT spray at 59 per cent would also be raised to 85 per cent by 2017 and reduction of malaria-related deaths per annum below 16.
Emerging story. Watch this space for updates as more details come in




http://www.freepressjournal.in/now-nair-docs-contract-typhoid/

Home  /  Mumbai  / Now, Nair docs contract typhoid
Now, Nair docs contract typhoid
— By Swati Jha | Jan 18, 2014 12:14 am
Mumbai : A total of five resident doctors from super specialty units residing in the Resident Medical officer (RMO) building of the Nair hospital have contracted typhoid within one week. The resident doctors are taking treatment in the hospital. 
The doctors are blaming the unsanitary conditions and poor drinking water facility at hostel, canteen as well as workplace for the outbreak of the disease. “The water filters of the buildings are not working since months now. We have made several complaints but no step has been taken yet. Besides, water in each building as well as canteen is unfit for drinking,” said a resident doctor from the hospital.
In the last three months, a total of fifteen doctors have contracted epidemics arising out of unsanitary conditions. While one doctor died of dengue, a total of six doctors are suffering from thyphoid. Besides over four nurses are suffering from Tuberculosis while one resident doctor along with one nurse is suffering from Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis.
The poor sanitary conditions have been raising serious concerns over the health of the resident doctors. Garbage is piling up at all vulnerable places in the areas surrounding the wards where patients are admitted and the residents stay. Low-lying areas remain water-logged. Many the drainage channels carrying filth and dirt are left unbleached.
Even after consistent reports from FPJ the areas remain filth-filled. Alternative arrangements for removal of garbage and attending to sanitation works are seemingly not in place yet. Though clean up operation was carried out on just one day that also after the death of the doctor of dengue.
According to the doctors of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), the floors of the quarters of the resident medical officers were cleaned last time with phenyl only after Dr Sumedh Pazare’s death and that too for just one day. The garbage from the vicinity was cleared off. Anti-mosquito chemicals were sprayed in the hospital. The rooms of the resident doctors were cleaned along with the toilets. Fogging was also carried out. But now the situation is same with mosquitoes all around.
“We have been demanding these basic sanitary measures since a long time. But they were always ignorant of our demands and react only after we loose one amongst us,” said a doctor from Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors from Nair Hospital.
The workers engaged in sanitation on contract basis say that the work force involved for the clean up of the hospital is very less. “They are not regularization our salaries and are expecting that in such little strengh of mere 50 cleaners we clean all the 11 to 12 floors of 5 to 6 buildings. This is not possible for us,” said a temporary wageworker of Nair Hospital. He also said that the authorities do not care for cleanliness. “We have never been instructed on what all to clean. They have never instructed us,” said another wage
worker.




http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/protest-after-buffaloes-die-of-mysterious-disease-in-rewari-114011900639_1.html

Special Fares from India to Brisbane and Cairns.
Protest after buffaloes die of mysterious disease in Rewari
Hundreds of villagers today blocked traffic on Kund-Dahina road near Mandola village here after four buffaloes died of a mysterious disease, demanding that other sick animals be provided treatment free of charge.  The villagers said the four buffaloes died last night at Mandola village.  Scores of buffaloes had died of a mysterious disease at Zenabad, Dahina and neighbouring villages of the district in the past three weeks, but the Veterinary Department had not yet been able to identify the disease and provide treatment, they claimed.  The road blockade, which lasted for several hours, was withdrawn after the SDO of the Animal Husbandry Department, Nasib Singh, assured the villagers of speedy and free treatment of sick animals. Hundreds of villagers today blocked traffic on Kund-Dahina road near Mandola village here after four buffaloes died of a mysterious disease, demanding that other sick animals be provided treatment free of charge.
The villagers said the four buffaloes died last night at Mandola village.
Scores of buffaloes had died of a mysterious disease at Zenabad, Dahina and neighbouring villages of the district in the past three weeks, but the Veterinary Department had not yet been able to identify the disease and provide treatment, they claimed.
The road blockade, which lasted for several hours, was withdrawn after the SDO of the Animal Husbandry Department, Nasib Singh, assured the villagers of speedy and free treatment of sick animals.
Latest News




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/Chennai-corporation-says-malaria-cases-less-residents-disagree/articleshow/29182915.cms

Chennai corporation says malaria cases less, residents disagree
Christin Mathew Philip Christin Mathew Philip,TNN | Jan 22, 2014, 07.29 AM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
The city corporation, which is constantly under fire from residents for its inadequate mosquito-control measures, recorded 4,734 cases of malaria and 133 cases of dengue cases from its 15 zones in 2013, figures obtained by TOI show.
The number of cases reported in 2013, the corporation claims, is a drop from the 6,780 cases of malaria and 553 cases of dengue recorded in 2012. This, public health experts say, is because many private hospitals rarely inform the corporation of such cases.
The most number of malaria cases (1,084) were reported from Royapuram zone in congested north Chennai followed by Teynampet (864) and Adyar (655). Adyar, through which the Adyar river and the Buckingham canal flow, recorded the most cases of dengue (44), followed by Kodambakkam (27) and Alandur (15). Manali (3), Madhavaram (8) and Alandur (9) reported the least number of malaria cases, while Sholinganallur (0), Thiruvottiyur (1) and Royapuram (1) recorded the least dengue cases.
Dr Jayachandran, a general physician who has been practisingin Royapuram for more than 40 years, said an average of 10 patients visited him daily with symptoms of malaria in 2013. The corporation says it has intensified fogging operations, but entomologists and public health experts say dengue-causing aedes and malaria-causing anopheles still thrive.
In Adyar, Federation of Residents Associations president P K Gunseelan said the corporation's fogging measures were not effective, but also blamed the residents for not keeping their surroundings clean.
Former director of public health Dr S Elango said a recent survey had found a gradual increase in the aedes population.
Chief minister J Jayalalithaa on Tuesday allocated 2crore for anti-mosquito measures, including appointment of health staff and procurement of larvicides. 'Mosquitoes are the reason for frequent disease outbreaks. The state is engaging field staff to identify sources of mosquito breeding areas and take up fogging and spraying insecticides,' an official release said. There was no mention of allocation of funds for Chennai. Corporation officials said fogging was intensified and free mosquito nets were being distributed to families near water bodies.
The prevention measures, experts say, are too few. The construction boom in the city draws thousands of migrant labourers crammed in unhygienic slums and near water bodies making them vulnerable to vector-borne diseases, they say.
Times View
Mosquitoes are no longer just a menace—they are killers, going by the number of people contracting dengue, chikungunya, malaria and such vector-borne diseases. The city corporation has tried out several measures - from releasing guppies in water bodies to providing mosquito nets to residents - but the spread of the diseases shows no signs of slowing down. Civic authorities have either got their strategy wrong or are not implementing the vector-control measures they talk about. The health department of the corporation needs to be strengthened with resources and field workers should be held accountable to produce results in the form of reduced incidence of mosquitoborne diseases. Citizens should also keep their surroundings dry to avoid mosquito breeding.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhopal/Suspected-measles-case-reported-from-Kolar-area/articleshow/29197956.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Bhopal
Breaking News:
Suspected measles case reported from Kolar area
TNN | Jan 22, 2014, 12.53 PM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
BHOPAL: In an unusual case, an 11-year-old suspected measles victims, was hospitalized here on Tuesday. The incident was reported from Kolar area and health department has been initiated a survey of the area, fearing an outbreak. Experts say there is a need for campaign similar to polio eradication to eradicate measles, which kills about one lakh children annually in the country.
State capital reports some 100 measles every per year. According to district health administration official's blood samples of the suspect have been sent for tests at an Ahmedabad-based laboratory and report would come in the next few days.
The current measles case comes a year after vaccination drive by health department, which had proclaimed that irrespective of their immunization status, about one lakh children under age of 10 in Bhopal were immunized against measles. According to annual health survey (AHS) 2011-12, measles vaccine coverage in Bhopal is about 70%.
In 2012, 50 children were administered care after measles outbreak was reported in from Nalkheda village in Berasia.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.diariovasco.com/agencias/20140122/mas-actualidad/sociedad/muere-hombre-causa-coronavirus-arabia_201401220927.html

Muere un hombre a causa del coronavirus en Arabia Saudн
ЪLTIMAS NOTICIAS DE Sociedad 09:27
Muere un hombre a causa del coronavirus en Arabia Saudн
Agencia EFE
Riad, 22 ene (EFE).- Un hombre contagiado por el coronavirus ha muerto en Arabia Saudн, informу hoy el Ministerio saudн de Sanidad, lo que eleva a 58 el nъmero de fallecidos en este paнs, el mбs afectado por la enfermedad.
En un comunicado, el departamento explicу que la nueva vнctima tenнa 54 aсos y trabajaba en el sector de la salud en la capital saudн, Riad.
El nъmero de contagios registrados del Sнndrome Respiratorio Coronavirus de Oriente Medio asciende a 142 casos en Arabia Saudн desde que se detectara el primer infectado en septiembre de 2012.
El Gobierno saudн ha apuntado que la mayorнa de los infectados sufre enfermedades crуnicas que debilitan su sistema inmunitario y los hace mбs vulnerables.
Los coronavirus constituyen una familia viral que puede causar enfermedades en los seres humanos que van desde el resfriado comъn hasta el Sнndrome Respiratorio Agudo Severo (SARS). EFE
CONDICION:SOC,%%%,%%%,%%%




http://www.newstrackindia.com/newsdetails/2014/01/23/409--Over-60-Bihar-students-fall-ill-after-getting-deworming-dose-.html

Over 60 Bihar students fall ill after getting deworming dose
Bihar,Education,Health/Medicine,   Thu, 23 Jan 2014 IANS
Patna, Jan 23 (IANS) More than 60 school students across Bihar fell ill and were hospitalised Thursday after being administered deworming dose in government schools, an official said. All children were safe and were discharged after preliminary treatment.
The children complained of vomiting and loose motions after being administered the deworming medicine in different schools in Gaya, Nalanda, Munger, Jamui and Lakhisarai districts, said state health department official Rajendra Prasad Ojha.
'All the children were admitted in different hospitals and are now safe, being discharged after preliminary treatment,' he said.
According to reports reaching here, 30 children fell ill in Gaya alone followed by 16 in Nalanda, 12 children in Munger, three in Jamui and two in Lakhisarai districts.
Ojha admitted that there must be some mistake on the part of officials concerned, and the health department has ordered an inquiry.
The incident has created panic among guardians of children, school teachers, health officials and district administration as on last July 16, 23 students died after eating poisonous meal in a primary school at Dharmasati Gandaman village in Saran district.
Hundreds of thousands of children were administered deworming dose in the state.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/visakhapatnam/First-swine-flu-case-of-the-season-detected/articleshow/29267231.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Visakhapatnam
Breaking News:
First swine flu case of the season detected
TNN | Jan 24, 2014, 12.39 AM IST
READ MORE Swine flu | Muralinagar area
RELATED
VISAKHAPATNAM: The first swine flu case of the season was detected in the city on Thursday with a 28-year-old woman from Muralinagar area, who is seven months pregnant, being admitted to a private hospital and testing positive for the flu. Her condition is said to be serious.
Dr LDSH Devi, nodal officer for swine flu in the district, said, 'This is the first case in about a year. Early last year we had three cases of swine flu but not a single one from March 2013. The pregnant woman has no travel history but was still affected. Her family members have been administered with prophylaxis and none of them has shown any symptoms of H1N1.'
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-21-diagnosed-with-typhoid-in-assam-1955872

Comments
The state Health department along with the Jorhat Medical College has opened a special facility to speed up treatment of typhoid patients after 21 persons suffering from the disease were admitted to hospitals, a government official said.
 The state Health department along with the Jorhat Medical College has opened a special facility to speed up treatment of typhoid patients after 21 persons suffering from the disease were admitted to hospitals, a government official said.
The 21 persons from ward nos one, four and five were admitted to Jorhat Medical College Hospital and Jorhat Christian Medical Centre yesterday after they were diagnosed with typhoid, Joint Director of health and family welfare Dr Sarat Kumar Das said.
Water samples have been collected from the wards, which were predominantly slum areas and most residents reside in cluster and was suspected to be using contaminated water from river Bhogdoi, Das said.
Teams of para-medical staff and health workers were sent for inspecting the drinking water, he said, adding, that the health department was also planning to ban the sale of street food within the municipality area. 
10




http://www.hindustantimes.com/ludhiana/2-swine-flu-cases-reported-in-punjab/article1-1176686.aspx

Vandana Singh, Hindustan Times ,              Ludhiana
|
Updated: Jan 25, 2014 20:13 IST
Two swine flu cases were reported in Punjab on Saturday. While a woman (25) from Jalandhar was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, and another woman patient (26) from Hoshiarpur was admitted to Max Hospital, SAS Nagar.
With these two cases, number of swine flu cases in Punjab has reached four in January. Two other cases, both children, were reported from Muktsar and Barnala. One case was reported from Chandigarh this month.
State Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP) officer Dr Deepak Bhatia said 12 tests have been conducted in January so far. He added that nodal officers concerned of the district had been informed about the cases and were asked to start medication of the relatives of the patients also.
Meanwhile, the patients admitted to hospitals have been quarantined. Swine flu spreads from person to person. Symptoms of H1N1 swine flu are like regular flu and include coughing, sneezing, bodyache, fever, chills, fatigue, diarrhoea, vomiting, restlessness, sore throat and runny nose.
Dr Deepak Bhatia said if the person finds such symptoms he/she should rush for check up. He added that the treatment for swine flu is totally free, as the cost of medication is borne by the state government.
Tags




http://www.deccanherald.com/content/383439/dozen-students-fall-ill-mid.html

You are here: Home » National » Dozen students fall ill after mid-day meal
Dozen students fall ill after mid-day meal
Patna, Jan 29, 2014, IANS:
At least a dozen children fell ill Wednesday after taking their mid-day meal at a government school in Bihar, officials said. The students are out of danger.
The children complained of uneasiness after consuming the meal at the Jalalpur Sargati Middle School in Saran district. 'All the children are now safe,' an official said. Samples of the meal have been collected by police.
Last year, 23 children died after eating contaminated mid-day meal at a school in the same district. The mid-day meal scheme is operational in 72,000 schools across Bihar, and 16 million students benefit from it.
Photo Gallery
Police stop members of Left Students Unions during their rally against State Government's...
Devotees carry an idol of Lord Ganesha to a pandal for the upcoming Ganesh festival in Nagpur...
Kashmiri people display walnuts for sale at Aalamguni in South Kashmirs Shopian district...
Members of Left Students Unions during their rally against State Government's education policy...
Jammu and Kashmir policemen march during their attestation cum- passing out parade at Manigam...
Several coaches of a Western Railway train derailed near Vile Parle station in Mumbai on...
Devotees carry an idol of Lord Ganesha to a pandal for the upcoming Ganesh festival in...
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Chief Executive Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes unveiling the Dawn at the...
Army soldiers enacting the 1965 War during a function to commemorate its Golden Jubilee...
Army personnel enacting the 1965 War during a function to commemorate its Golden Jubilee...




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/Most-leprosy-cases-detected-late/articleshow/29571107.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Pune
Breaking News:
Most leprosy cases detected late
Umesh Isalkar Umesh Isalkar,TNN | Jan 30, 2014, 01.41 AM IST
READ MORE World Health Organisation | union government | state health official | leprosy cases
RELATED
PUNE: Nearly six decades after the government had launched a national programme to eradicate leprosy, cases continue to alarmingly mount in Maharashtra, with the state recording as many as 18,715 cases in 2012-13, the third-highest in the country after Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, according to the Union government's recently released report. What the rising numbers point at is another disturbing reality-that many cases were possibly hidden in the past by the state machinery to earn the 'eradicated' tag for the disease.
Over the last five years, cases in Maharashtra have continued to soar, even as cases in UP have shown a marginal improvement. In fact, the state has registered 12,416 new cases detected between April and December 2013, indicating the disturbing trend will continue even in 2013-14.
The current new case detection rate (ANCDR), which is 16 per lakh population, is based on voluntary reporting of patients to hospitals and dispensaries between April 2012 and March 2013. A new case detection rate of over 10 is considered alarming.
The spurt in cases in Maharashtra is not sudden, but one that has been building up, rising from 9 to 10 new cases (per one lakh population) in 2006-07 to 16 new cases in 2012-13.
Even more worrisome is that in a large number of cases-10,305 of a total of 18,715 cases in 2012-13-the disease had progressed to an advanced stage when it was detected. Experts say many leprosy cases remain unreported due to the stigma attached to the bacterial infection.
State health authorities attributed the rise to continuous surveillance and monitoring mechanism which has been strengthened to detect and treat every leprosy case in the society. 'In the initial phase (of the surveillance), the number of cases show a rise, but once all the cases are detected and treated, the prevalence will go down. Our aim is to find out as many new cases as possible and start their treatment,' Manohar Pawar, joint director (leprosy), state public health department told TOI.
However, other health officials blamed a complacent government machinery and misreporting in the past for the rise in numbers. 'After being declared as eliminated by World Health Organisation (WHO) in 2000 and by the Union government in 2005, everyone from WHO to the government to the non governmental organisations (NGO) seem to have washed their hands off the disease. And the recent trends clearly show that cases were missed out deliberately to show a good report on the elimination front. These cases are returning and contributing to more cases which are multibacillary and even with deformities among children,' said a health official who did not want to be named.
Among districts, Thane has registered the highest 2,757 cases followed by Chandrapur (1293 cases) and Nashik (1259) cases. The lowest new case detection rate was reported in Sindhudurg with 80 leprosy cases between January and December 2013.
'These areas are mainly tribal. Most parts of these districts are inaccessible. Besides, as the incubation period of leprosy causing bacteria stretches to up to 20 years, cases become visible after a long time,' said another state health official.
The global target of leprosy elimination, as set by the World Health Organisation (WHO), was achieved in 2000. This was the time when the elimination target shifted from global to national level. Around this time, a lacuna of targeting limited leprosy cases crept into the national leprosy eradication programme (NLEP).
'That meant that once the stipulated numbers of leprosy cases were found, health workers would cease to probe other cases. This resulted in limited case detection, and accumulation of leprosy cases over a period of time. This is a big reason why so many cases are being reported now,' said a state leprosy expert, requesting anonymity.
A cough or a sneeze sends thousands of mycobacterium leprae into the air. Though 80% of leprosy cases are not infectious, the remaining 20% are.
Since no vaccine has yet been developed for leprosy, any person with low immunity can be a prey to it, say experts.
Major Challenges
* Urgent need to reaffirm political commitment, remove complacency in leprosy control programmes
* Strengthening of referral systems/facilities.
* Establishing new facilities within the integrated health systems to improve management of acute and chronic complications
* Developing more effective tools and procedures for early detection and management of leprosy reaction and nerve damage
* Ensuring equality of life for leprosy-afflicted
* Building and sustaining leprosy expertise. A strategy needs to be developed in collaboration with partners that will cover training programmes
* Improving community awareness through effective information, education and communication (IEC), to promote voluntary reporting and to eliminate the stigma and social discrimination faced by patients. It is essential to ensure such initiatives are locally appropriate, cost effective and sustainable
* Developing reliable diagnostic tests for early diagnosis and an effective vaccine to prevent leprosy
* National programmes must strengthen integrated supervisory activities to improve the quality of leprosy services in the field
* Collaborating with all stakeholders to effectively share the challenges and work together to overcome them
Indian and Maharashtra comparison as per leprosy cases in 2012-13
Indicator India Maharashtra




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolhapur/Fresh-survey-from-today-to-detect-new-leprosy-cases-across-Kolhapur/articleshow/29630922.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Kolhapur
Breaking News:
Fresh survey from today to detect new leprosy cases across Kolhapur
Piyush Bhusari Piyush Bhusari,TNN | Jan 31, 2014, 05.14 AM IST
READ MORE World Health Organisation | leprosy survey | health authorities
RELATED
KOLHAPUR: Health authorities will launch a 12-day leprosy survey across Kolhapur from Saturday in the wake of an 'alarming rise' in the number of patients detected across the district over the past one year.
Compared to 156 leprosy cases in 2012-13, the health officials detected 182 instances across the district last year till December. The officials, however, attributed the rise in number to 'a strong detection system'.
'The new detection rate has gone up across the district, particularly in the rural belt like Karveer and Hatkanagale areas,' said Prajakta Patil, the in-charge of assistant director (leprosy), Kolhapur district, state health department. The official added that though there has been definitely a rise, the prevalence rate is not even one case per 10,000 and the disease is well within its normal range.
'Of the 182 newly detected leprosy cases in the district, 77% are of multi-bacillary (MB) nature. This means that the cases were at an advanced stage,' she said, adding, 'The rise can be attributed to a robust detection system, which has been put in place to detect every leprosy case and bring it under the surveillance of treatment. The high percentage of multi-bacillary (MB) cases underlines the need for detecting leprosy cases in the early stages and prompt treatment.'
The leprosy unit of the health department has started an awareness campaign across the district from anti-leprosy day that was on Thursday. 'A survey to detect new cases will be carried out from February 1 to February 13 at 73 primary health centres across 12 talukas. To mark anti-leprosy day on Thursday, we organized an awareness rally at Gargoti. The event evoked a positive response,' Patil said.
Over the last five years, cases in Maharashtra have continued to soar. In fact, the state has registered 12,416 new cases detected between April and December 2013, indicating the disturbing trend will continue even in 2013-14. The current new case detection rate (ANCDR), which is 16 per lakh population, is based on voluntary reporting of patients to hospitals and dispensaries between April 2012 and March 2013. A new case detection rate of over 10 is considered alarming.
Leprosy is a chronic disease caused by a bacillus, Mycobacterium leprae, an acid-fast, rod-shaped bacillus. M. leprae multiplies very slowly and the incubation period of the disease is about five years. Symptoms can take as long as 20 years to appear.
Untreated, leprosy can cause progressive and permanent damage to the skin, nerves, limbs and eyes. Early diagnosis and treatment with multidrug therapy (MDT) remains the key in eliminating the disease as a public health concern, as per the World Health Organistion.
A cough or a sneeze sends thousands of mycobacterium leprae into the air. Though 80% of leprosy cases are not infectious, the remaining 20% are. Since no vaccine has yet been developed for leprosy, any person with low immunity can be a prey to it, say experts.
The global target of leprosy elimination, as set by the World Health Organisation (WHO), was achieved in 2000. This was the time when the elimination target shifted from global to national level.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/At-1-4-lakh-cases-Maharashtra-is-top-drug-sensitive-tuberculosis-state/articleshow/29622746.cms

READ MORE World Health Organization | Ministry of Health and Family Welfare | Central Government | multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
RELATED
MUMBAI: Even as the public health department claims to have effectively controlled major diseases in the state, Maharashtra has earned the dubious distinction of being home to the largest incidence of both drug-sensitive and multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) cases in the country in 2013.
A senior bureaucrat told TOI that while the Centre has drafted a multi-pronged strategy to tackle TB and despite its best efforts, Maharashtra has seen a spurt in both types of TB cases. The disturbing figures were part of a recent Central government report.
The bureaucrat further said a World Health Organization (WHO) report on the disease, though, states that both drug-sensitive TB as well as TB-related mortality has reduced in the country. 'But we are not happy with the manner in which TB is being tackled in the state. We will have to step up our drive and target more patients for effective treatment,'' he said.
Ministry of health and family welfare records show that Maharashtra reported 1.36 lakh cases of drug-sensitive TB, followed by Andhra Pradesh at 1.08 lakh, Rajasthan at 1 lakh, West Bengal 93,274, Madhya Pradesh 89,545, Tamil Nadu 79,576 and Karnataka 67,572.
The largest number of multidrug-resistant cases-at 4,439-were also reported from Maharashtra, followed by 2,538 from Rajasthan, 2,122 from Gujarat and 1,007 from West Bengal.
The bureaucrat said globally, WHO has estimated that 2.9 million cases were not even recorded, as they were either not diagnosed or diagnosed but not reported to the national programme. Of these, an estimated 31% cases are from India. In the Indian context, the bureaucrat said, 'it is likely that a substantial proportion of this sub-group was treated in the private sector, and not notified to the health department.''
At a recent conference on TB, he added, leading activists expressed doubts over free distribution of medicines to patients. Under the revised national TB control programme, it is the state government's responsibility to provide all medicines free of cost and that there should be no waiting list. 'The activists' contention was the administration was reluctant to provide free medicines. As a result, there was a huge waiting list. Not in urban areas, but in rural parts of the state where there was an acute shortage of medicines.''
A former hospital dean said, in view of specific allegations by activists, the public health department must review the entire programme and ensure that all TB patients are given free medication.
'We should have a random sample-checking system, to enable us to assess the implementation of the programme. At the same time, it should be made mandatory for all private practitioners to report TB cases to civil surgeon or civic hospitals,'' the dean said.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/State-records-155-XDR-TB-cases-in-3-years-8-from-Pune-district/articleshow/29622967.cms

My Saved articles
RELATED
PUNE: The state has recorded 155 cases of extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) in the last three years. Of the 155 cases, 115 alone were recorded last year. Barring nine cases, most of the patients diagnosed with XDR-TB are from Mumbai (123), Navi Mumbai (25) and Pune district (8).
XDR-TB is a rare form of tuberculosis that is resistant to at least four of the core anti-TB drugs. It takes a substantially longer time to treat the drug-resistant form of TB than the drug-susceptible form and requires the use of second-line anti-TB drugs, which are expensive.
Health experts say the detection of XDR-TB cases is not surprising, given the widespread prevalence of TB and the rising cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in India. That patients often do not complete the recommended treatment is also a factor adding to the numbers.
Maharashtra's current burden of drug-susceptible TB is 1.34 lakh cases and there are 9,716 multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) cases apart from the 155 XDR TB cases, which are more difficult to treat.
'Of the 155 patients in the state, 46 have succumbed to the infection so far and the rest are undergoing treatment. To expedite early detection and treatment, we have proposed three more centres for testing XDR-TB in Pune, Nagpur and one more in Mumbai,' said Manohar Pawar, joint director (TB and leprosy), state public health department.
In 2013, as many as 33 patients died of the infection, 12 patients died in 2012 and one in 2011, Pawar said.
People with drug-resistant TB remain infectious for a longer period, despite the treatment and this may prolong the risk of transmission in the household. 'Patients are educated on cough etiquette and family members are also made aware about the precautions to ward off the disease,' Pawar said.
Three patients detected with XDR-TB in Pune city include a 25-year-old woman and two men in the 30 to 35 age group. 'All the three patients are undergoing treatment and are recovering,' said N D Thakur, chief of the Pune Municipal Corporation's (PMC) TB control unit.
The state health department started diagnosing XDR-TB after the first case was reported in 2011 at Hinduja Hospital in Mumbai. Earlier, the state government would send the patient's sample to Bangalore-based National Tuberculosis Institute for confirmation of XDR-TB. However, in December last year, the state government gave a green signal to Hinduja Hospital's laboratory to carry out tests for XDR-TB. Currently, it is the only laboratory in the state to test for XDR-TB.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/3-suspected-hantavirus-cases-in-kallara/article5638360.ece

Updated: January 31, 2014 12:26 IST
3 suspected hantavirus cases in Kallara
Special Correspondent
disease
No confirmatory evidence available
Three probable cases of infection due to hantavirus, including a death, have been reported in the district from Kallara, Nedumangad area, giving rise to fears that this could be another emerging virus that the State’s public health system is ill-equipped to handle.
All three cases have tested positive for scrub typhus too. This is not the first time that suspected hantavirus cases are being reported in Kerala, the earliest one being reported in2002 from Ernakulam. Despite serological evidence from the population in many parts of the country, there is yet to be any confirmatory evidence because reliable test kits are not available here, microbiologists say.
Scrub typhus
The three blood samples which tested positive for both hantavirus and scrub typhus were part of the bunch of samples referred to the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) from the Medical College Hospital to test for scrub typhus between December 2013 and early January this year.
“We found some 272 blood samples to be positive for scrub typhus. We tested these samples for hantavirus also as rodents or bandicoots are a common host for both these pathogens. Once we found the three samples IgM positive for hanta, we asked for a second sample from the patients, to be collected after 7 to 20 days, which showed that antibody levels were going up. We can only say that this is a probable hantavirus infection, because PCR testing and gene sequencing alone will confirm the diagnosis,” Head of Laboratory Medicine, RGCB, R. Radhakrishnan, says.
RGCB has already placed orders for the specific reagents and primers needed for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing for hantavirus, he says. From the clinician’s point of view, all the patients had severe pulmonary and renal infection, pointing to classical symptoms of hantavirus infection. Additional Director of Public Health A.S. Pradeepkumar says these symptoms are the same for scrub typhus and leptospirosis also.




http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-2549848/Fifty-three-fall-ill-medical-college-Hepatitis-outbreak.html

comments
Dirty water has struck again.
This time, it is at the Girls' Hostel of the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) in the Capital where 53 medical students have reportedly contracted Hepatitis A after consuming contaminated water, and possibly food.
While doctors from the community medicine department and the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) have got into action to tackle the situation, students alleged the college authorities had turned a blind eye to repeated complaints about 'miserable' water quality.
With Hepatitis A looming large, students have been asked to report any form of illness that may indicate contracting the virus.
At least 53 students from the girls' hostel of the Maulana Azad Medical College have taken ill after reportedly consuming contaminated water and food
Notices have been put up across the hostel urging the students to inform community medicine department if anyone is suffering from Hepatitis A or any water-borne disease or even if there are symptoms of any such disease.
The GB Pant Hospital, which is associated with MAMC, has hurriedly constituted a committee to deal with the problem and water facilities at the hostel have been inspected.
But it is a belated action, students said. 'We complained several times to the college authorities, but everyone turned a blind eye. The drinking water facilities were already miserable and adding to the problem were the workers in hostel mess who had been rearing rabbits. The rodents often nibbled on the food that was supplied to us,' a student alleged.
'Two months ago, some students fell ill but the authorities didn't pay any attention. Gradually, the numbers started increasing. Today, at least 53 students are suffering from Hepatitis A,' she said.
Pointing at apathy on part of the college authorities, another student alleged that there was no provision to check quality of food and water.
'The water in the hostel was really bad. We are compelled to stay here and consume the dirty food and water,' she said on condition of anonymity.
A visibly shaken up college administration is now trying to get things in order.
'In November 2013, we came across some cases of Hepatitis A. Earlier this week, we had few more cases. We immediately started chlorination of water. We have cleaned the water coolers and water filters. We have called in NICD experts in the college,' said Dr Deepak K. Tempe, Dean of MAMC.
Food poisoning
'Some cases of food poisoning are also suspected because of the rabbits in the mess. We have already removed the rabbits from the mess,' he claimed.
'The department of community medicine has also been chipped in. We have constituted a committee of doctors that is looking into the matter seriously,' Tempe added.
The college authorities are mulling to vaccinate all the students, but NICD has not recommended the mass vaccination so far.
Meanwhile, officials of Delhi Jal Board have blamed the hostel authorities.
'There can be a possibility that they are not cleaning their water tanks or pipes,' a Delhi Jal Board official said.
Share or comment on this article




http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/23-zp-school-students-fall-ill-due-to-food-poisoning-114013101275_1.html

Special Fares from India to Brisbane and Cairns.
23 ZP school students fall ill due to food poisoning
Atleast 23 students of a Zila Parishad school in the district were taken ill today due to suspected food poisoning, police said.  The students complained of uneasiness after consuming mid-day meals in the school at Vanjari village following which they were referred to the civil hospital here, they said.  Out of the 23, three are said to be critical while 20 have been discharged, police said.  Further investigations are on. Atleast 23 students of a Zila Parishad school in the district were taken ill today due to suspected food poisoning, police said.
The students complained of uneasiness after consuming mid-day meals in the school at Vanjari village following which they were referred to the civil hospital here, they said.
Out of the 23, three are said to be critical while 20 have been discharged, police said.
Further investigations are on.




http://www.bangaloremirror.com/bangalore/others/Bird-flu-in-Mysore-fear-spreads-to-Bangalore/articleshow/29781476.cms

‘Bird flu’ in Mysore, fear spreads to Bangalore
By Shyam Prasad SShyam Prasad S, Bangalore Mirror Bureau | Feb 2, 2014, 01.00 AM IST
ApnaCircle
My Saved articles
Thousands of dead diseased birds have been buried in Mysore in the last one weekdue to an as-yet unconfirmed disease
Death of thousands of birds in Mysore due to an as yet unconfirmed disease is keeping people away from chicken stalls even in Bangalore city.
Local reports from Mysore and Chamarajnagar speak of dozens of dead birds being buried by poultry farmers. Retailers in Bangalore say prices may plummet in the next few days as more and more people are asking them about the outbreak.
Karnataka Hatcheries Association president, MCR Shetty, says that there is nothing to fear. He said, 'All the birds arriving in Bangalore are totally free from infection or disease. The birds that have died in Mysore have not shown any symptoms of bird flu. It is most likely Ranikhet disease. But we are not sure and we have sent samples to the labs and the reports will come in a few days.'
Rumours of bird flu spread fear among chicken eaters in the state several times in the last decade, as it could result in human fatalities. The most recent outbreak of the disease was in the government's farm in Hesarghatta in October 2012. The latest outbreak in Mysore is, however, said to be the 'Velogenic Viscerotropic Newcastle Disease,' popularly known as Ranikhet disease.
Approximately 45 lakh live chicken arrive in Bangalore every week. Half of them are consumed on weekends. On Sunday, live chicken was retailing at Rs 110 per kg and dressed chicken between Rs 180 and Rs 200 per kg.
Scientists from the South Regional Disease Diagnosing Laboratory have just collected samples from dead birds and their report is awaited.
Dr Dharnesh from the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals and his team visited Mysore last weekend and collected samples of dead birds. He said, 'The report should arrive in a day or two. Farmers have said that some birds died of the Ranikhet disease two months ago. But only the tests will conclude whether it is the Raniketh disease or bird flu.'
Poultry scientist Dr BL Chidananda from the University of Agricultural Sciences said, 'Bird flu's health effect on humans is the biggest concern. But Raniketh disease causes more economic damage. All commercially grown birds are given vaccination for the disease and even a booster dose in the second or third week of their lives. There could have been some failure somewhere. Birds suffer morbidity (weight loss) and lose their health as they develop wounds in their intestines.'
You Might Also Like




http://www.freepressjournal.in/two-students-fall-ill-after-consuming-mid-day-meal/

Home  /  Ujjain  / Two students fall ill after consuming mid- day meal
Two students fall ill after consuming mid- day meal
— By FP NEWS SERVICE Ujjain  | Feb 05, 2014 02:57 am
Ujjain: Two government middle school students fell unconscious after consuming the mid- day meal at village Ninora on Monday. They were rushed to SS Hospital where they were admitted to the ICU. Sources informed that Madhu ( 11), daughter of Mohan Thakur and Deepa ( 12), daughter of Nanuram Choudhary, both residents of Ninora village had mid- day meal on Monday afternoon.
Both the girls fell unconscious after 45 minutes. Zila Panchayat Chief Executive Officer MP Patel said that children and school staff had the same meal, but they did not fall ill. If the food was stale or poisoned, all the children would have fallen ill. However, the matter will be investigated, he said.
Share this Post:




http://post.jagran.com/kerala-witnesses-increase-in-hiv-cases-1391504884

Kerala witnesses increase in HIV cases
04 Feb 2014, 14:38   Jagran Post Editorial   | Last Updated: 04 Feb 2014, 14:38
Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala has seen an increase in the number of HIV positive cases, a minister said on Tuesday. Health Minister VS Sivakumar informed the Kerala assembly that in the past decade, the last fiscal saw the highest increase of fresh HIV positive cases in the state.
BJP expresses concern over economic blockade
Representational picture
'If one looks into the figures of new HIV cases starting from the fiscal 2004-05, 440 cases was registered then and the last fiscal saw 1,766 cases. During the 2011-12 fiscal, 1,680 new cases were there. This fiscal till the end of December last year 1,177 new cases was registered,' said the minister.
He also said at present there are 17,593 HIV positive patients in the state and those who are undergoing the treatment stands at 8,525.
Palakkad district leads with 1,381 patients and the capital district accounts for 898 patients who are under treatment.
(Agencies)




http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/conjunctivitis-is-now-seen-all-year-round-docs/article5657777.ece

communicable diseases
Ophthalmologists said the main symptoms of conjunctivitis are irritation in the eyes, swelling and discharge from the eyes.
Outbreaks of conjunctivitis are no longer seasonal in the city. Ophthalmologists say that cases of conjunctivitis are now seen throughout the year, and eye hospitals have been receiving a number of cases since December.
The Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and Government Ophthalmic Hospital, Egmore, is receiving between five and 10 cases of conjunctivitis every day, according to its director and superintendent K. Namitha Bhuvaneshwari.
“The trend of the disease is changing. Earlier, we used to see cases of conjunctivitis only in June but it is no longer seasonal,” she said.
People travel quite frequently these days, and this is one of the ways the infection, which could be bacterial or viral spreads rapidly, said T.S. Surendran, vice chairman of Sankara Nethralaya.
“We have been seeing quite a few cases since December due to the chilly weather. Conjunctivitis is prevalent around the year and is sporadic in nature,” he said.
Conjunctivitis could be mild, moderate of very virulent depending on the immunity of a person. Sometimes, it can last for 10 days, but it normally settles down in three or four days, Dr. Surendran said.
Ophthalmologists said the main symptoms of conjunctivitis are irritation in the eyes, swelling and discharge from the eyes. If the cornea is involved, there could be watering from the eyes, at which point one must seek medical help immediately.
“The infection usually starts in one eye and spreads to the other. In 95 per cent of cases, it is bilateral. Generally, infected persons’ eyelids are stuck in the morning due to the discharge. If it is a bacterial infection, the bacteria multiples in the night due to warmth, leading to stickiness,” he explained.
Ophthalmologists stressed the need for personal hygiene and isolation of the affected person. “The infection spreads through direct contact. Frequent washing of the hands and face will help. Avoid sharing handkerchief and towels,” Dr. Bhuvaneshwari said.
For bacterial infections, antibiotics are prescribed, while non-steroid eye drops are given for viral infections. Doctors said over-the-counter medications should be avoided and patients should approach ophthalmologists for treatment.




http://www.hindustantimes.com/ludhiana/first-death-from-swine-flu-reported-in-state/article1-1180747.aspx

Vandana Singh, Hindustan Times ,              Ludhiana
|
Updated: Feb 05, 2014 19:06 IST
A woman, in her 40s and a resident of Una in Himachal Pradesh, died of swine flu at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday, making her the first victim of the disease in Punjab.
She was admitted to the hospital 10 days ago. Till now, eight cases of swine flu have been confirmed in Punjab, including two from other states.
State Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP) officer Dr Deepak Bhatia said this was the first death due to swine flu this year so far. As many as 20 tests have been conducted for swine flu till now.
Dr Bhatia said the wife of a swine flu patient from Jalandhar was also suffering from the disease and she had been admitted to DMCH, Ludhiana. He said medication of a patient's relatives was also necessary to avoid spread of this air-borne disease and all nodal officers in the districts had been asked to do so.
District epidemiologist, Ludhiana, Dr Anil Verma said a sample of a suspected case of swine flu was sent to Chandigarh from Ludhiana on Wednesday. This was the first suspected case from among Ludhiana residents, as other patients admitted to the city hospital hailed from other districts of the state.
Earlier, swine flu cases have been confirmed in Muktsar, Faridkot, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Rupnagar and Gurdaspur. A patient from Chandigarh and another from Una in Himachal Pradesh were also reported to be suffering from swine flu in the state.
Meanwhile, swine flu patients admitted to hospitals have been quarantined. Swine flu spreads from person to person. The symptoms of H1N1 swine flu are like common flu and include coughing, sneezing, body-ache, fever, chills, fatigue, diarrhoea, vomiting, restlessness, sore throat and runny nose.
Dr Deepak Bhatia said if the person notices such symptoms he/she should rush for check up. He added that the treatment for swine flu is totally free, as the cost of medication is borne by the state government.
Tags




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/Foot-and-mouth-disease-afflicting-cattle-in-Rajasthan/articleshow/30074023.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Jaipur
Breaking News:
Foot and mouth disease afflicting cattle in Rajasthan
TNN | Feb 9, 2014, 02.36 AM IST
READ MORE mouth disease | Cold weather
RELATED
UDAIPUR: Cold weather and low temperatures for a long duration have affected the cattle population which is reportedly contracting the deadly Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD).
FMD is an infectious and sometimes fatal disease whose symptoms are high fever for two to three days, followed by blisters inside the mouth and on the feet that may rupture and cause lameness to the animal.
With the increasing number of livestock, especially cows, being brought into the subcentres and poly clinics for treatment, the vaccines have gone out of stock at various places, sources claim. Many cases of FMD have been reported from Jaipur, Sikar, Nagaur and Udaipur which has kept the animal husbandry department on toes. Cattle breeders living in the adjoining areas of Udaipur like Manwa Kheda, Eklingpura, Keer ki Chowki, Shobagpura and Bedla have been coming at the poly clinics here demanding vaccines for FMD for their milking livestock.
FMD cases have been reported not only in the division but many other districts across the state. 'We were short of vaccine supply but met the extra requirement by procuring more stock and making it available to all sub centers,' said Dr Mahesh Kapila, joint director, Animal husbandry department.
'With the cold subsiding, the situation is under control, as the virus of the disease becomes dormant as temperature rises,' Dr Kapila said. However, taking precautionary measures, farmers are being advised to separate infected cattle from other animals so that the infection doesn't spread.
The staff at the 196 sub centers in the district have been instructed to vaccinate the livestock in surrounding areas too whenever any FMD case is reported from a village. According to the officials in Udaipur 3,000 vaccines had been administered under the routine vaccination programme for FMD, but seeing a spurt in cases an extra stock of 2,500 vaccines was procured, which too got depleted.
Veterinarians blame ignorance and negligence on the part of cattle breeders for the disease. 'The livestock needs to be vaccinated twice a year before monsoon and onset of winters to save them from the disease but breeders fail to do so,' experts said.
FMD has severe implications for animal farming, since it is highly infectious and can be spread by infected animals through contact with contaminated farming equipment, vehicles, clothing or feed, and by domestic and wild predators.
While FMD is not normally fatal to adult animals, but causes significant loss of productivity; for example, milk yields may drop or the animals may become lame. In young animals it can be fatal on a large scale.
Udaipur: Cold weather and low temperatures for long duration has not only disrupted life of the common but also a large number of cattle population across the state reportedly getting infected by the deadly Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD).
Khur Paka - Munh Paka or the FMD is an infectious and sometimes fatal disease which is associated with high fever for two or three days, followed by blisters inside the mouth and on the feet that may rupture and cause lameness to the animal.
With the increasing number of live stock especially cows being brought into the sub centres and poly clinics for treatment , the vaccines had been out of stock at various places, sources claim. Many cases of FMD have been reported from Jaipur, Sikar, Nagaur and Udaipur which had kept the animal husbandry department on toes. Cattle breeders in Udaipur living in the adjoining areas of the city like Manwa Kheda, Eklingpura, Keer ki Chowky, Shobagpura and Bedla have been coming up at the poly clinics here demanding vaccines against the FMD for their milking live stock.
FMD cases have been reported not only in the division but many other districts across the state. 'We were in short of vaccine supply but we met the extra requirement by procuring more stock and making it available to all sub centers, said Dr. Mahesh Kapila, the joint director of Animal husbandry department.
With the temperature getting better and cold subsided, the situation in under control, as the virus of the disease gets dormant with increase of temperature, Dr Kapila said. However, taking precautionary measures, farmers are being adviced to seperate their infected cattle from other animals so that the infection doesn't spread at large.
The staff at the 196 sub centers in the district, have been instructed to vaccinate the live stock in the surrounding areas too whenever any FMD case is reported from a village. According to the officials in Udaipur, 3000 vaccines had been injected under the routine vaccination program for the FMD, however on reports of cases an extra stock of 2500 vaccines were procured which too has been consumed. Vets blame ignorance and negligence on the part of cattle breeders for their animals to get infected.
The live stock needs to be vaccinated twice a year before monsoon and onset of winters to save them from the disease but they fail, experts said. Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) has severe implications for animal farming, since it is highly infectious and can be spread by infected animals through contact with contaminated farming equipment, vehicles, clothing or feed, and by domestic and wild predators. The cells of organ filled by thousands of copies of the virus, and eventually bursts, releasing the new particles in the blood.
The virus is genetically highly variable, which limits the effectiveness of vaccination. While Foot and Mouth is not normally fatal to adult animals, it is debilitating and causes significant loss of productivity; for example milk yields may drop or the animals may become lame. In young animals it can be fatal on a large scale.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/hantavirus-row-rages/article5674967.ece

Updated: February 11, 2014 03:08 IST
Hantavirus row rages
Thiruvananthapuram
The detection of cases of probable hantavirus infection in patients who had presented with leptospirosis-like symptoms in Thiruvananthapuram is a warning signal that the health system needs to be more aware of the dangers posed by new pathogens.
Even as the Health Department, the National Institute of Virology (NIV), and the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), which detected hantavirus in a serum sample, are engaged in a war of words over its presence in Kerala, it remains a fact that public health officials have been consistently warned about the possibility of hantavirus in circulation in the State. The increasing number of patients dying of suspected leptospirosis and scrub typhus patients, presenting with symptoms akin to leptospirosis, has been a topic of discussion among the Health Services fraternity.
“The topic had again been in focus in 2012 when a private hospital in the city had reported a suspected hanta death. Instead of being in denial, the health authorities should make use of the facilities for virology studies and molecular diagnosis in the State to conduct sero-surveillance studies,” a senior public health expert told The Hindu.
In 1999
Serological and clinical evidence of hantavirus infection in India — and in Kerala — was documented in 1999 when serum samples from Kochi were sent to the Laboratory of Clinical and Epidemiological Virology at the University of Leuven, Belgium, to test for hanta. “We do not know for sure but it is very much possible that many suspected leptospirosis deaths in Kerala could actually be due to hanta. Hantavirus infecton should be the main differential diagnosis for leptospirosis,” said Georgy Ninan, consultant nephrologist in Kochi, who had in 1998, found serological proof for clinically suspected hantavirus infections in Kerala.
Similar symptoms
“The clinical symptoms of leptospirosis and hantavirus infection are very similar, with acutely ill patients going into renal failure and pulmonary haemorrhage. We had a number of patients with leptospirosis symptoms but negative lab tests, dying on the fifth or sixth day of illness, making us suspect that this was hantavirus in play,” Dr. Ninan said.
“Thus, in 1998-99, we did a prospective sero-survey of 30 Kochi patients, whose blood samples were sent to the Belgium institute. Two cases were found to be hanta positive in the IgM and IgG antibody test. The hanta serotype identified were Seol virus (SEOV) and Puumala virus (PUUV),” he added.
A test is lacking
Despite serological evidence, no case of hantavirus has yet been documented in India and there is little information on the circulating types, primarily because a proper confirmatory test for hantavirus has still not been evolved. “Serology is the mainstay of diagnosis of hantavirus infections as the viremia (presence of virus in blood) in patients with haemorrhagic fever and renal syndrome is shortlived. Immunoflourescent Assay (IFA) or New Capture Elisa, a test being developed, are the best bet for detecting hantavirus,” Sara Chandy, a former virology researcher with CMC Vellore and one who has been doing extensive research on hantavirus in India, told The Hindu. Sero-epidemiological studies published by Dr. Chandy has pointed to a 4 per cent sero positivity of hantavirus infections in India. “Till date, no well-documented hantavirus case, as defined by virus isolation or molecular diagnostic evidence, has been reported in India. But it is a proven fact that one or more types of the virus is circulating in India. Co-transmission or co-infection of hanta with leptospirosis or scrub typhus is a real possibility, which has been documented and physicians should observe clinical symptoms closely,’’ Dr. Chandy said.
No infection: NIV
There is no hantavirus infection in Kerala, as per a report given by the NIV to the Health Secretary. This was stated in a press note issued by the Health Minister.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhopal/Madhya-Pradesh-leads-in-hepatitis-cases/articleshow/30152607.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Bhopal
Breaking News:
Madhya Pradesh leads in hepatitis cases
Jamal Ayub Jamal Ayub,TNN | Feb 10, 2014, 12.02 PM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh has the maximum number of viral Hepatitis (A, B, C & E) cases in the country if data released by Union ministry of health and family welfare is to be believed. Hepatitis is a dreaded disease that's deadly than HIV or asthma. Consumption of contaminated water is a major cause of Hepatitis A and E.
Provisional figures reported by state health department states on an average MP reported 32 cases of viral hepatitis. Cases of hepatitis have quadrupled in two years, with provisional data for 2013 reporting 11,783 cases. In comparison neighbouring Rajasthan reported only 1,807 cases. Both MP and Rajasthan spent the same amount of funds on routine immunization in 2013.
It is not just about clean drinking water. A study by Bhopal-based Gandhi Medical College (GMC) last year reported 'barely 1% of patients diagnosed with hepatitis in Bhopal, actually sought treatment'.
An estimated 5% of the population carry the virus and most of them are not aware about it until jaundice, cirrhosis or liver cancer sets in, gastroenterologist Dr Sanjay Kumar said. He claimed to have diagnosed hundreds of patients at GastroCare Liver and digestive disease centre.
Under the Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) all children born after 1995 are immunized against Hepatitis B. 'For those born before 1995, we recommend a simple blood test and eventual vaccination,' he added.
'Patients are generally diagnosed for hepatitis when tested before blood donation. However, they do not turn up for treatment,' said head, department of gastroenterology, GMC, Dr RK Jain. He said patients seek treatment only after pain sets in and liver gets damaged. 'At times it is too late to recover as it can lead to cancer,' he added.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/1837-dengue-cases-in-j-k-during-2013-14-114021101385_1.html

Special Fares from India to Brisbane and Cairns.
1837 dengue cases in J-K during 2013-14
Jammu and Kashmir government today said that 1837 dengue cases were found across the state during the last year.  As many as 5896 suspected dengue cases were tested for the dengue fever. Out of which 1837 cases were confirmed positive during the year 2013-14, Minister for PHE, Irrigation and Flood Control Sham Lal Sharma said while replying to a question of NC Legislator Shenaz Ganai during question hour in Legislative Council today.  Sharma said out of the confirmed cases, three deaths have occurred.  He said that all the health institutions are being strengthened for the dengue treatment whereas district hospitals are being strengthened to take care of complicated cases.  The Minister further said that the department has made assessment of various preventive measures including Larvicidal operations in the form of 'Temephos' instead of Iranaiannlar larvicide 'Bioflash' to check the menace of the disease.  He further said that in future in addition to the Department of Microbiology ... Jammu and Kashmir government today said that 1837 dengue cases were found across the state during the last year.
As many as 5896 suspected dengue cases were tested for the dengue fever. Out of which 1837 cases were confirmed positive during the year 2013-14, Minister for PHE, Irrigation and Flood Control Sham Lal Sharma said while replying to a question of NC Legislator Shenaz Ganai during question hour in Legislative Council today.
Sharma said out of the confirmed cases, three deaths have occurred.
He said that all the health institutions are being strengthened for the dengue treatment whereas district hospitals are being strengthened to take care of complicated cases.
The Minister further said that the department has made assessment of various preventive measures including Larvicidal operations in the form of 'Temephos' instead of Iranaiannlar larvicide 'Bioflash' to check the menace of the disease.
He further said that in future in addition to the Department of Microbiology Government Medical College, Jammu, diagnostic facilities are being established in district hospitals of Kathua, Samba, Government Hospital, Gandhinagar and Sarwal.
Sharma said that facilities to carry out ELISA test would be provided in every district hospital of the state to check the dengue and treat accordingly.
Latest News




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/Madras-Christian-College-student-a-dog-lover-dies-of-rabies/articleshow/30808579.cms

Madras Christian College student, a dog lover, dies of rabies
M Ramya M Ramya,TNN | Feb 22, 2014, 01.07 AM IST
READ MORE tetanus toxoid | rabies | Madras Christian College | CMC Vellore
RELATED
CHENNAI: Alan Samuel, 24, a post-graduate student of social work at Madras Christian College, Tambaram, died of rabies early on Friday. He was bitten by a rabid pup on the college campus in November 2013. Alan was a dog lover.
In November 2013, he and his classmates were walking to their department when they came across the pup. He and a classmate played with the pup, which bit them both. Alan and his friend went to general physicians to get treated. 'The girl's physician recommended that she take the anti-rabies vaccine, but Alan's doctor seems to have said a tetanus toxoid shot would suffice,' said Durai Jasper, public relations officer of CMC Vellore, who confirmed that Alan died at the hospital at 1am on Friday.
A post by MCC's department of social welfare on a social networking site on February 13 said Alan complained of shoulder pain after two days, and his parents took him to a doctor close to their home. The doctor informed them that Alan was displaying symptoms of advanced stage of rabies and told them to take him to a government hospital.
At GH he was referred to CMC, Vellore. 'He hasn't slept the whole night, refused to lie down, just kept sitting and staring at everyone. He's showing aversion to breeze and water. Please pray for a miracle,' the post read.
On February 17, an update on the site said doctors at CMC had put him under induced coma and were waiting for his immune system to produce antibodies. Jasper said that as soon as he was diagnosed with rabies, the doctors told his parents that he may not survive. 'There are only six known cases of survival across the world. We tried on the patient the Milwaukee protocol, which saved these people in the US, but it didn't help,' said Dr George Varghese of CMC. The hospital is treating Samuel's friend who was also bitten, since she had taken only three of the five doses of anti-rabies shots.
The college has a 365-acre campus many parts of which remain unexplored or unfrequented by students and faculty. Students and faculty said the dog population had grown on the campus.
Principal R W Alexander Jesudasan said the management had tried to prevent the dogs from entering the campus by building compound walls at vulnerable areas. 'We try to curb the dogs from proliferating without doing ecological damage, but it's always been a problem. We regularly inform the local authorities and the Blue Cross who try to catch the dogs to prevent the population from growing. But, the moment the dogs sense this, they hide in the bushes. It's not possible for the authorities to camp here for days to catch them,' Jesudasan said.
He said the authorities have recommended that all students take the anti-rabies vaccine. to be on the safe side. 'Alan was an engineering student who joined the course to be able to serve society. He was a pet lover, and was used to dogs, so he didn't take the bite too seriously. Our class is small, so we were very close to each other,' said R Akhilesh, a classmate. Alan's funeral will be held at St Paul's Church in Vepery on Sunday.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Typhoid-outbreak-in-Pkl-housing-society/articleshow/30923085.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Chandigarh
Breaking News:
Typhoid outbreak in Panchkula housing society
Nikhil Sharma Nikhil Sharma,TNN | Feb 24, 2014, 04.17 AM IST
READ MORE Shobna Sharma | Sandeep Verma | Haryana Urban Development Authority | executive engineer
RELATED
PANCHKULA: Days after eleven-year-old Ashima Sharma, a student of Moti Ram Sharma School, died of typhoid on February 3, 40 other cases have been reported so far from her housing society. Suspecting an epidemic, the health authorities on Sunday confirmed the outbreak of typhoid in the locality. Saying they have never heard of an epidemic of typhoid in the city, they have collected water samples from the area.
Lives of hundreds of residents of Haryana Employees' Welfare Organization Society, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, are at risk due to the 'contaminated' water supply.
Residents said the water supply was getting mixed with sewage water.
Chief medical officer V K Bansal said, 'I have never heard of any such epidemic in the city. We have taken water samples. Things will become clear only after we receive the reports. It might be an epidemic, but it is not yet clear. We have also taken the blood samples of those suffering from the disease.'
Ashima's mother, Shobna Sharma, said, 'Had the authorities concerned done their work properly, my daughter would have been alive today. How can they be so careless? Till date, we are getting contaminated water supply which can claim more lives.'
Seema, a resident of the society, said, 'I have developed skin problems because of the poisonous water supply.'
Residents also complained that the supply was stopped after the issue was highlighted. 'There has been no supply since two days,' said Sandeep Verma, a resident.
Infuriated, the residents of the society came out on roads to register their protest. Later, they met deputy commissioner S S Phulia, who assured to solve the problem soon. 'It is a serious issue as many lives are at risk. Our teams and the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) public health department are looking into it. We will receive the report of water samples in a day or two.'
'The water supply might be contaminated. We have added chlorine in the water as a precautionary measure and new pipes are being installed. The management of the society too should ensure its tanks are properly cleaned,' said HUDA executive engineer Bhupinder Singh.
The issue has also taken political hues, with members of AAP and Panchkula MLA V K Bansal visiting the society. 'The situation is bad. I will talk to the authorities to solve the problem at the earliest. We cannot put so many lives at risk,' said Bansal.
Times View
The death of an 11-year-old girl due to typhoid should put the civic authorities in Panchkula on high alert. Cracked pipelines that allow untreated sewage to mix with potable water should be replaced immediately. The authorities should also conduct an audit of all infrastructure facilities in the area. Besides, regular inspections would ensure that waterborne diseases do not create more havoc.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.thepoultrysite.com/poultrynews/31543/h5n1-bird-flu-kills-house-crows-in-indian-state/

H5N1 Bird Flu Kills House Crows in Indian State
24 February 2014
INDIA - The Indian veterinary authorities have reported an outbreak of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in the state of Odisha.
The World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) received an immediate notification on Friday, 21 February. The outbreak was initially observed on 31 January and confirmed on 6 February.
On 6 February, real-time PCR, reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and virus isolation tests were conducted on the crows at the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal and the tests confirmed the presence of the HPAI virus.
According to the report, two house crows (Corvus splendens) were found dead. No birds were slaughtered and/or destroyed.
The source of the outbreak remains inconclusive.
The OIE, in conjunction with the country's competent authorities, have disinfected infected premises/establishments to contain the situation. However, vaccination of birds has been prohibited; there has also been no treatment of affected birds.
Further Reading
You can visit the Avian Flu page by clicking here .
ThePoultrySite News Desk




http://www.ndtv.com/ludhiana-news/ludhiana-nine-suspected-swine-flu-cases-reported-551991

Ludhiana | Press Trust of India | Updated: February 25, 2014 20:14 IST
EMAIL
COMMENTS
Ludhiana:  Nine cases of suspected swine flu have been reported at hospitals in Ludhiana.
Nine persons from different regions of the state were admitted to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in Ludhiana in the last two days.
Civil surgeon Dr Subhash Batta said today that out of them, two each were from Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana and one each from Hoshiarpur, Moga and Nawashashar districts of Punjab.
This year, there were seven confirmed cases of swine flu, and three persons died due to the disease, Dr Batta said.
Story First Published: February 25, 2014 20:14 IST
Trending




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/Nine-cases-of-dengue-in-Pune/articleshow/31039377.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Pune
Breaking News:
Nine cases of dengue in Pune
Umesh Isalkar Umesh Isalkar,TNN | Feb 26, 2014, 02.49 PM IST
READ MORE Pune dengue | dengue in Pune
RELATED
PUNE: As many as seven cases of dengue were recorded in the city last week. With this, the number of cases of the mosquito-borne infection has gone up to 8 so far this month and 47 so far this year.
'Cases of dengue are being reported, although the number has gone down considerably over the last one month. There was no death due to dengue this year,' said S T Pardeshi, medical officer of health (MoH), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).
Eighty per cent of the people in the city who got mosquito-borne diseases, mainly dengue, had vector breeding spots right at their homes.
Health officials from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have appealed to the people to be extra careful since stagnant water provides the perfect breeding ground for the Aedes Aegypti mosquito which causes dengue.
'Usually, when a person tests positive for dengue, our health staff inspects the person's house and its surroundings for mosquito-breeding spots. This is done to ensure that others living there do not contract it. It is our common observation that most of those who get dengue have breeding spots right inside their houses,' said Pardeshi.
The mosquito breeds primarily in man-made containers like earthenware jars, metal drums and concrete cisterns, plastic food containers, used automobile tyres that retain water.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/Five-cases-of-viral-hepatitis-reported-in-Pune/articleshow/31039579.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Pune
Breaking News:
Five cases of viral hepatitis reported in Pune
Umesh Isalkar Umesh Isalkar,TNN | Feb 26, 2014, 02.52 PM IST
READ MORE viral hepatitis | communicable disease
RELATED
PUNE: City reported four cases of viral hepatitis (jaundice) last week, reveals the communicable disease report of the Pune Municipal Corporation.
'We reported five cases of viral hepatitis last week. Sporadic cases of jaundice are being reported in city,' said S T Pardeshi, medical officer of health (MoH), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).
PMC recorded 19 cases of viral hepatitis last month. 'The total number of cases recorded so far this year is 24,' Pardeshi said.
As per Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) Jaundice is mainly a water-borne disease, which is caused due to hepatitis A and E virus.
'Jaundice may be caused due to bacterial, viral, parasitic and neoplastic infections. Viral hepatitis A and E is water-borne, while hepatitis B, C and D is caused by blood and sexual transmission,' said a state health official.
A study conducted by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in 2010 has also found an alarming rise in the prevalence of the hepatitis A and E viruses in the Mutha river over the last eight years.
The hepatitis E virus is transmitted via the faecal-oral route, principally via contaminated water. Risk factors for hepatitis E are related to poor sanitation in large areas of the world and shedding of the hepatitis E virus in faeces.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/Woman-tests-positive-for-H1N1-first-case-in-Sawai-Man-Singh-Hospital-this-year/articleshow/31066959.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Jaipur
Breaking News:
Woman tests positive for H1N1, first case in Sawai Man Singh Hospital this year
TNN | Feb 27, 2014, 03.32 AM IST
READ MORE SMS Hospital | H1N1 influenza
RELATED
JAIPUR: A 25-year-old woman was tested positive for H1N1 influenza at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital on Wednesday.
SMS hospital officials claimed that it was the first H1N1 case of 2014 brought to SMS hospital. But in a city-based private hospital, a swine flu case has already been reported. He is undergoing treatment at the private hospital. He belongs to Beawar in Ajmer. He was brought to Jaipur when his condition deteriorated.
SMS hospital additional superintendent Dr Ajit Singh said, 'The woman was brought to the hospital on Tuesday from Nagaur. She is a resident of Deedwana in Nagaur district.'
Dr Singh said that the woman was rushed to SMS hospital in critical condition. She has been suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness for the past 10 days. She was undergoing treatment in a hospital in Deedwana. When her condition did not improve, her relatives brought her to SMS hospital.
Suspecting her of having swine flu like symptoms, the doctors conducted a swab test which tested positive. The doctors admitted her to an isolated ward. 'She is critical and we have put her on ventilator support,' Dr Singh said.
A health department official said that a case was reported some days ago in a private hospital in the city. The officials in Deedwana will conduct a survey in the area, where she lives to find out if there is any other suspected case of swine flu.
The official said that they are trying to find the history of the patient suffering from swine flu, to know how she got infected with the H1N1 virus.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/Four-swine-flu-cases-reported-in-Pune/articleshow/31037914.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Pune
Breaking News:
Four swine flu cases reported in Pune
Umesh Isalkar Umesh Isalkar,TNN | Feb 26, 2014, 02.18 PM IST
READ MORE Swine flu | pune swine flu
RELATED
PUNE: The infection rate of swine flu has gone down considerably since the beginning of this year and the city reported only four cases of H1N1 infection since January.
'There were two positive cases of H1N1 infection in January. We found two more confirmed cases last week. The infection rate has plummeted considerably over the last two months,' said S T Pardeshi, medical officer of health (MoH), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).
The symptoms of swine flu are similar to those of regular seasonal influenza and include fever, lethargy, lack of appetite and coughing. Some people with swine flu have also reported a runny nose, sore throat, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea.
The elderly and those suffering from health problems like asthma, diabetes and heart diseases need to be extra careful, say doctors. The elderly, especially those above 65 years, are at high risk of developing influenza or pneumonia during period of erratic weather temperature.
Taking medicine without consultation and delaying treatment can aggravate the condition. 'Once the weather settles down, the infection rate usually comes down,' said paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA).
On August 10, 2010, WHO director-general Margaret Chan had announced that the H1N1 influenza virus had moved into the post-pandemic period. However, localised outbreaks of various magnitudes are likely to continue.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/Woman-tests-positive-for-H1N1-first-case-in-SMS-hospital-this-year/articleshow/31066959.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Jaipur
Breaking News:
Woman tests positive for H1N1, first case in Sawai Man Singh Hospital this year
TNN | Feb 27, 2014, 03.32 AM IST
READ MORE SMS Hospital | H1N1 influenza
RELATED
JAIPUR: A 25-year-old woman was tested positive for H1N1 influenza at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital on Wednesday.
SMS hospital officials claimed that it was the first H1N1 case of 2014 brought to SMS hospital. But in a city-based private hospital, a swine flu case has already been reported. He is undergoing treatment at the private hospital. He belongs to Beawar in Ajmer. He was brought to Jaipur when his condition deteriorated.
SMS hospital additional superintendent Dr Ajit Singh said, 'The woman was brought to the hospital on Tuesday from Nagaur. She is a resident of Deedwana in Nagaur district.'
Dr Singh said that the woman was rushed to SMS hospital in critical condition. She has been suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness for the past 10 days. She was undergoing treatment in a hospital in Deedwana. When her condition did not improve, her relatives brought her to SMS hospital.
Suspecting her of having swine flu like symptoms, the doctors conducted a swab test which tested positive. The doctors admitted her to an isolated ward. 'She is critical and we have put her on ventilator support,' Dr Singh said.
A health department official said that a case was reported some days ago in a private hospital in the city. The officials in Deedwana will conduct a survey in the area, where she lives to find out if there is any other suspected case of swine flu.
The official said that they are trying to find the history of the patient suffering from swine flu, to know how she got infected with the H1N1 virus.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/Malaria-cases-reduced-by-nearly-13/articleshow/31074495.cms

Malaria cases reduced by nearly 13%
TNN | Feb 27, 2014, 06.06 AM IST
RELATED
Breeding Fish To Fight Malaria
Minor initiatives taken by the ward office have helped reduce malaria cases by nearly 13%, compared to 2012. While 165 cases of malaria were detected from June to December 2012, the number came down to 145 in the same period in 2013. Ward officer S Dhonde said the breeding of guppy fish was increased and they were released in stagnant water puddles, which are mosquito-breeding sites. 'We are breeding guppies in two ponds to control growth of mosquito larvae. Currently, we release these fish in drains and other water bodies at four major locations in the ward,' said Girish More from the civic body's pest control department. One of the areas where the fish are released is Dahisar River, as residents of housing societies by the river-turned-nullah complain of mosquito infestation.
Restoration Of Shiva Shrine
Mandapeshwar Caves, a rock-cut shrine dedicated to Lord Shiva, was built around 1,600 years ago. The temple, now a ruin, is in the care of the Archaeological Survey of India. There are a few relief panels, including one depicting Shiva as Nataraja. Jitendra Nath, superintending archaeologist from the Mumbai circle of the ASI, said restoration of the caves will be carried out in phases. 'We are currently restoring the walls on the outer surface of the caves. There are three chambers in the caves, which will be taken up for restoration at a later stage. The cave temple is open for public,' said Nath. The open space outside the cave is under dispute and is currently being used by children from neighbouring areas like Shivaji Nagar.
Waste Segregation Project Revived
An NGO, Voice of IC Colony, had initiated a project in August 2011 to segregate dry and wet waste from daily garbage collection. The group not only met residents in the colony to spread awareness on the issue, it also trained the sweepers and garbage collectors in the area in solid waste management. 'We had distributed pamphlets listing the dos and don'ts of garbage disposal, and also put up posters across the neighbourhood. We met residents of five to six housing societies in groups and trained them. It was quite a success,' said Diana Dias, an IC Colony resident. However, in the last eight months, the practice was discontinued as the civic body failed to get the vehicle contract for disposal of dry garbage, said Dias. With the contract now in place, the residents plan to revive the project in the next few months, after training more citizens and other stakeholders.
Bollywood's Scenic River, Now Known As A Nullah
Dahisar river, which originates at the spillway of Tulsi Lake in Sanjay Gandhi National Park, is now reduced to a huge nullah. The river was once known for its idyllic and beautiful surroundings. Several Hindi films in the 40s and 50s were shot here, the last one being in the late 1970s. Datta Rane (79), a Dahisar resident since the 1940s, said a number of films, from Ek Din Ka Sultan (1945), directed by Sohrab Modi, to Swami (1977) directed by Basu Chatterji, were shot there. 'Most of Dahisar in the early 40s and 50s was a hillock. In those days, local residents would swim in this river. It was a nice spot for recreation, even foreigners loved swimming here. Whenever there were film shoots, the whole place was decorated beautifully. Things have changed a lot after urbanisation,' said Rane. He added that the Dahisar bridge, which is now lying in ruins, was the only way to cross the river. Indira Bhende, another resident whose family lived in Dahisar for over six decades, said the Girish Karnad and Shabana Azmi-starrer Swami was one of the last films shot at Dahisar river. Today, the river has lost all trace of its glory and is reduced to a mere nullah, a dumping ground for waste and construction debris.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/Typhoid-cases-surface-in-Pune/articleshow/31039211.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Pune
Breaking News:
Typhoid cases surface in Pune
Umesh Isalkar Umesh Isalkar,TNN | Feb 26, 2014, 02.45 PM IST
READ MORE typhoid in Pune | Pune typhoid
RELATED
PUNE: Three patients were diagnosed with enteric fever commonly known as typhoid in Pune city last week. Typhoid is an acute infectious disease characterized by high fever and intestinal inflammation, spread by food or water contaminated with the bacillus Salmonella typhosa.
'City hospitals reported us about three people who have been diagnosed with typhoid last week. We recorded nine typhoid cases last week,' said S T Pardeshi, medical officer of health, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).
Typhoid fever is a systemic disease of varying severity. Severe cases are characterized by gradual onset of fever, headache, malaise, anorexia and insomnia. Constipation is more common than diarrhoea in adults and older children.
The highest case-fatality rates are reported in children below 4 years of age. Around 2-5% of those who contract typhoid fever become chronic carriers, as bacteria persist in the biliary tract after symptoms have resolved.
As per the World Health Organisation (WHO), the typhoid bacillus is transmitted by consumption of contaminated food or water. Occasionally, direct faecal-oral transmission may occur. Shellfish taken from sewage-polluted areas are an important source of infection; transmission also occurs through eating raw fruit and vegetables fertilised by human excreta, and through ingestion of contaminated milk and milk products.
Flies may cause human infection through transfer of the infectious agents to foods. Pollution of water sources may produce epidemics of typhoid fever, when large numbers of people use the same source of drinking water.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/students-fall-ill-from-suspected-food-poisoning-114022801288_1.html

Special Fares from India to Brisbane and Cairns.
Students fall ill from suspected food poisoning
At least 34 students of a tribal ashram school at Karlakot under Jaipatna block of Odisha's Kalahandi were affected by suspected food poisoning today.  The students complained of nausea and vomiting tendency shortly after eating in the morning, official sources said.  The students were admitted to hospital and later discharged.  District Chief medical officer, Surendranath Mohapatra said it appeared to be a case of food poisoning but exact cause was yet to be ascertained. At least 34 students of a tribal ashram school at Karlakot under Jaipatna block of Odisha's Kalahandi were affected by suspected food poisoning today.
The students complained of nausea and vomiting tendency shortly after eating in the morning, official sources said.
The students were admitted to hospital and later discharged.
District Chief medical officer, Surendranath Mohapatra said it appeared to be a case of food poisoning but exact cause was yet to be ascertained.
Latest News




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/vadodara/Suspected-swine-flu-death-in-city/articleshow/31390487.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Vadodara
Breaking News:
Suspected swine flu death in city
TNN | Mar 4, 2014, 11.28 AM IST
READ MORE Vadodara Municipal Corporation
RELATED
VADODARA: A man died of a suspected H1N1 infection at SSG Hospital in the city on Sunday night.
The victim was 30-year-old and lived in Ajwa Road area. He is the first suspected case of death due to swine flu in the city this year. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) health department officials said samples had been sent to verify if he was suffering from the flu. Three other persons were tested for the flu in the city this year. But all of them tested negative.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.daijiworld.com/news/news_disp.asp?n_id=221401

Thursday, March 06, 2014 9:42:51 AM (IST)  
Kasargod: Chocolates laced with drugs - Several students fall ill
Kasargod: Chocolates laced with drugs - Several students fall ill
Stephan Kayyar
Daijiworld Media Network - Kasargod (EP)
Kasargod, Mar 6: After pen cigarettes, it is now the turn of chocolates mixed with drugs in the district. It is said that such chocolates are available in the district and they can be deadly dangerous.
Three incidents of drug mixed chocolates have been reported within a period of last two weeks here. Students of a school fell ill after consuming such chocolates on Tuesday, March 4.
Nine affected children were admitted to the general hospital in the city. The chocolates were reportedly distributed during the birthday celebration of one of their classmates. The children complained of stomach pain and vomited soon after consuming them and they had to be rushed to the hospital for treatment.
The chocolates were bought from a bakery near the city bus stand. The packets are labeled as Cool Zone and there are no markings of date, price and date of expiry on them. There is no mention of the name or place of manufacturers.
The police and the health officials have taken samples of the chocolates to the laboratory at Kozhikode for necessary tests. As the incident came to light, police and health department officials have conducted raids at the bakeries and wholesale dealers in the city.
Some banned and old chocolates with lapsed date of expiry were seized by them. Police have information that large amounts of some illegal and chocolates laced with drugs are being supplied to the state from neighbouring states.
It is said that chocolates consisting of drugs were distributed in a school here. Police had seized them in a raid. Cigarettes sold inside pens were seized by the police a few weeks ago.
Police have taken action to locate the source of chocolates and they have said that strict action will be taken against the guilty.




http://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/bengaluru/Watch-Out-for-Conjunctivitis/2014/03/07/article2095439.ece

Email 0
With mercury levels rising, ophthalmologists in the city are seeing a steady trickle of patients with conjunctivitis, an eye infection.
Doctors are treating at least two cases of conjunctivitis everyday and the number is predicted to rise by April.
Speaking to Express, Dr Bhujanga Shetty, chairman, Narayana Nethralaya said,” Prevalence of conjunctivitis will increase as temperature rises. This may not be alarming but the condition is contagious and persists for a week.”
He warned people to avoid using contact lens during the infection and advised parents to keep their unwell wards at home to prevent the infection from spreading among other children.
Doctors have urged people to wash their hands and eyes frequently and keep door knobs and railings in their houses and offices clean. People have also been advised against using towels used by those with conjunctivitis.
Dr Sri Ganesh, chairman and Managing Director, Nethradhama Eye Hospital, said the infection persists for four weeks, with mucus discharge from the eyes. “Covering the eyes with a bandage is not advisable,”  Dr Ganesh said.
He stressed that towels and handkerchiefs be used only after they are sanitised. “Children who are more prone to pollen in the air due to spring are worst affected. The hospital gets such cases regularly during this season and sees at least two children with swollen eyes with irritation everyday. This is categorised as allergic conjunctivitis”.
STAY SAFE
■ Wash eyes frequently with clean and cold water
■ Wear prescription and protective sunglasses while outside
■ See an eye specialist/doctor if redness, soreness and eye discharge persist
■ Avoid self medication
■ If there is a suspicion of a foreign body in the eye, do not attempt to remove it. Visit the nearest eye doctor




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/500-students-fall-ill-after-eating-stale-food/articleshow/31567510.cms

500 students fall ill after eating stale food
TNN | Mar 7, 2014, 04.43 AM IST
READ MORE Medipally police | Sumathi Reddy | 500 students fall ill after eating stale food
RELATED
HYDERABAD: Nearly 500 students of Sumathi Reddy Junior College, Boduppal, fell ill on Wednesday night reportedly after consuming stale food served by the college authorities for lunch. A case has been registered against the college management on the basis of a complaint lodged by the students.
On Wednesday afternoon, nearly 1,000 students were served lunch at the hostel. However, by night the students started vomiting and showing symptoms of food poisoning, Medipally police said. As many as 478 students were shifted to local private hospitals. 'The condition of 50 to 60 students is serious and they are undergoing treatment,' Medipally inspector Ravi Kiran Reddy said.
According to him, a case was registered against the college management under sections 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code and section 47 of the Food Adultration Act.
Meanwhile, panic-stricken parents, who came to know about the incident through the media, rushed to the hospitals and blamed the college management for not responding to their calls. Several students unions also staged dharnas on the college premises. Incidentally, the students are also slated to sit for their annual exam in less than a week.
The police are now trying to determine which food item had caused the illness. 'As of now, we do not know which food item was stale. It is being investigated,' police said.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/hyderabad/200-Students-Fall-ill-Due-to-Food-Poisoning/2014/03/07/article2095672.ece

Email 0
As many as 200 students were admitted in hospital for suspected case of food poisoning on Wednesday night.
The students complained of stomach pain, severe headache and vomiting after having food at the college mess at Bodduppal under Medipally police limits.
The incident took place at two messes of SR Junior College at Bodduppal. On receiving information police shifted the students to two private hospitals. The health department officials collected the food samples served to the students.
Of the 200, 150 students were discharged on Thursday.
Meanwhile, parents and relatives of the students squatted in front of college alleging that the management failed to serve hygienic food.
 ‘’The college management has collected lakhs of rupees in the name of hostel fees and are not providing hygienic food to the children,’’ Ch Narasimha, father of a student alleged.
Police registered cases against the college management and said they would take action based on the report submitted by food inspectors.




http://www.freepressjournal.in/people-fall-ill-after-consuming-prescribed-medicines/

Home  /  Ujjain  / People fall ill after consuming prescribed medicines
People fall ill after consuming prescribed medicines
— By FP NEWS SERVICE Ujjain  | Mar 07, 2014 03:31 am
Ujjain: Several people who were prescribed medicines during a health check- up camp in Bapu Nagar and Shahid Nagar localities on Wednesday fell ill after consuming the medicines on Thursday. Many people were admitted at district hospital after they complained of vomiting and dizziness.
A health check- up camp was organised at Shahid Nagar under the aegis of district hospital on Wednesday. People were given medicines for cough, cold, fever and other common diseases after they were examined by doctors. Some people were admitted at hospital on Wednesday evening after they fell ill while some were admitted on Thursday morning. Dr SS Gupta, Dr Cheryl Jacob imparted their services during the camp. Though the medicines prescribed to people were not of expiry date. Doctors told that patients might have taken medicines empty stomach.
Share this Post:




http://www.daijiworld.com/news/news_disp.asp?n_id=221811

Friday, March 07, 2014 10:13:44 PM (IST)  
Mangalore: 76 school children fall ill after consuming mid-day meal
Mangalore: 76 school children fall ill after consuming mid-day meal
Mohan Kuthar
Daijiworld Media Network - Mangalore (EP)
Mangalore, Mar 7: As many as 76 students of Kinya Belaringe higher primary school under Ullal police station limits on Friday March 7 took ill after they consumed mid-day meals served in the school. They were rushed to a private hospital at Deralakatte
The children identified as Safan, Anisha, Tanshira, Fasila, Ashura, Afiza, Rehmat and Nihana were admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital for severe vomiting and were discharged later in the evening after their recovery.  A child named Safreena is still in the hospital.
The children had complained of foul smell in the food to helpers in the kitchen.  The children however were asked to eat it.  After consuming the food, some children complained of giddiness followed by stomach pain and vomiting.  Some of the children were then taken to the hospital, said Safreena.
'Children with severe vomiting have been given medicine.  Some have complained of stomach pain and all have been given tablets.  An ambulance has been arranged by the department for those who experience stomach pain in the night. Samples of rice and sambar cooked as meal have been sent to the laboratory', said Dr Ratnakar, taluk medical officer and district executive.
The rice was taken from a new sack, said headmistress Rekha.
Ullal police visited the hospital.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/surat/Two-swine-flu-cases-reported-in-city/articleshow/31586809.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Surat
Breaking News:
Two swine flu cases reported in city
TNN | Mar 7, 2014, 11.03 AM IST
READ MORE Piyush Shah | H1N1 | Swine flu
RELATED
Two patients, who tested positive for swine flu infection, are at present under treatment at two private hospitals in the city. They were suffering from cold and cough for the last one week. A 28-year-old man, who is a resident of Palapur Patia, was admitted to a hospital here on Tuesday. He was found positive for the virus following blood test on Wednesday. Another H1N1 patient happens to be a 56-year-old female. She was admitted in a hospital on Thursday after her blood report found her to be H1N1 positive. 'The patients are from the city. We are yet to check their travel histories to find out from where they could have got infected with H1N1. They are under constant observation,' epidemic medical officer, Gujarat government, Dr Piyush Shah said.
The condition of the man is serious and he is on ventilator. The woman is suffering from severe pneumonia, doctors said.
Health officials are examining the family members of patients to find out if any of them has got infected with the virus. Meanwhile, SMC health officials have started a preventive drive in the areas where the patients live.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/School-kids-fall-ill-after-drinking-chemical-mixed-water/articleshow/31617691.cms

School kids fall ill after drinking chemical mixed water
Pradeep Gupta Pradeep Gupta,TNN | Mar 7, 2014, 08.24 PM IST
READ MORE Phosphate | Indian Penal Code
RELATED
KALYAN: Four people including three school kids fell ill after drinking zilla parishad run supplied water in Dahagaon village situated in Titwala on Friday morning.
Titwala police said primary probe suggests that some miscreants had mixed phosphate chemical in water due to which people fell ill.
The police have booked unidentified person under section 277 (fouling water of public spring or reservoir) and 284 (Negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance) of Indian Penal Code.
The incident came to light on Friday morning when some kids from Dahagaon village were on their way to school when they drank water supplied from water tank.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/chicken-pox-cases-surface-in-chennai-earlier-than-usual/article5771159.ece

Updated: March 11, 2014 01:09 IST
Chicken pox cases surface in Chennai, earlier than usual
health
It is just the beginning of summer, but cases of chicken pox have already started to surface in the city.
Cases of chicken pox rise during the peak summer months of April and May. Some doctors in the city have already seen patients, including children, with chicken pox in the last few days.
Chicken pox is an acute viral infectious disease spread by the varicella zoster virus. “It is a self-limiting disease and there is no need to fear. It can be easily diagnosed. Getting medical help will control its severity,” S. Raghunanthanan, professor of medicine, Madras Medical College, said.
For students, contracting chicken pox during examinations can be a difficult thing to handle.
P. Vijayalakshmi, principal, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Virugambakkam, said eight to nine students, mostly in classes VII and VIII, had reported to have chicken pox.
“We have advised them to come to school only after they recover. The examinations for classes I to VIII will begin in a week. We told them that we’d provide them with a separate room to write the exam,” she said, adding that students usually present with chicken pox only by the end of March and beginning of April.
A school education department official said schools in the city where class XII examinations are being held had not reported any case so far.
Chicken pox starts with boils on the chest and back, along with body pain, fever, chills and tiredness.
“People with chicken pox should be isolated. They should stay in a separate room at home and preferably stay away from children, pregnant women and elderly as they are highly prone to infection,” Dr. Raghunanthanan said.
Doctors said that anti-viral drugs are available for treatment. Patients are advised to take plenty of fluids such as tender coconut, fruit juices and water, and stay at home for at least 10 days.
A doctor at the Institute of Child Health said hygiene was important in preventing the spread of the disease.
“Vaccination is available for preventing chicken pox and is advisable after the age of one,” he said.




http://www.newindianexpress.com/nation/35-UP-Girls-Fall-Ill-After-Consuming-Iron-Pills/2014/03/10/article2101526.ece

Email 0
Thirty-five girls at an Uttar Pradesh college fell ill Monday after they were administered iron pills following lunch, officials said.
The incident took place at the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya in Shahjahanpur, about 200km from here. The girls, after being administered iron pills, aimed at improving blood content in the body, complained of giddiness and sickness.
They were immediately rushed to the community health centre. When their condition deteriorated, they were referred to the district hospital, where more than two dozen of them are still serious.
Senior officials have rushed to the hospital.
Doctors are investigating to find if the sickness was due to 'routine reaction' of the iron pills or whether the medicines had expired or were of poor quality, an official told IANS.




http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/chickenpox-cases-on-the-rise-in-madurai/article5773153.ece

Updated: March 11, 2014 13:28 IST
Chickenpox cases on the rise in Madurai
hospital and clinic
Infectious Diseases Hospital at Thoppur treating 36 persons at present
With the mercury level soaring in the city, the heat is bringing with it a fair share of chickenpox cases.
The Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH) at Thoppur near here, which is attached to the Government Rajaji Hospital, is treating 36 persons with chickenpox at the moment. The hospital has been receiving five such cases almost every day.
The facility usually got chickenpox-related cases from March, but this year the district had witnessed a sudden spurt in the number of cases in January itself, a hospital employee said on Sunday.
The chickenpox ward at the hospital had 20 cases in the first week of January. Now, it had 15 children, 14 men and seven women – two of them pregnant. The vulnerable age group was below 12 years, the employee added.
“People should be careful to avoid complications caused by the disease, as they may affect the brain,” said J. Balakrishnan, Medical Officer, IDH.
“People must avoid meat and include loads of fresh fruits and vegetables in their diet during summer as it would help boost the resistance power of the body,” he added.
Chickenpox was caused by Varicella-zoster virus and the symptoms included fever, running nose, cough and itching of skin. Round spots appeared on the body, usually a day after the symptoms developed, he noted.
The duration of the disease was two to three weeks and patients would be given antiviral tablets at the hospital. Each tablet would cost about Rs.200.
Poor people should get admitted to the IDH at the earliest if they had any symptoms of chickenpox to prevent complications and its spread to others, Dr.Balakrishnan said.
Asked about the preparedness, Dr.S. Gandhimathinathan, Resident Medical Officer, said the hospital had adequate stock of the drugs to treat patients with chickenpox.
S. Senthil Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Madurai district, told The Hindu that precautionary measures were being taken in the district and all health staff and doctors attached to primary health centres had been put on alert.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/guwahati/Hepatitis-C-virus-not-HIV-bigger-epidemic-in-northeast/articleshow/31824861.cms

READ MORE Indian Council of Medical Research | Hepatitis Coalition of Nagaland | Hepatitis-C virus
RELATED
GUWAHATI: With little awareness about increasing Hepatitis-C cases in the northeast, activists and medical practitioners warned that unless effective programmes were implemented, there would be a further escalation in the number of people falling prey to the dreaded virus.
Often referred to as a viral time bomb, the disease is widespread among intravenous drug users (IDUs). Manipur's Surachanpur and Bishnupur districts have the highest number of people carrying the Hepatitis-C virus (HCV), with prevalence rates among the districts' IDUs being nearly 90 per cent and 78 per cent respectively.
In Nagaland's Wokha and Phek districts, the prevalence rate, as per an Integrated Bio Behavioural Assessment Round 2 Testing, conducted in 2009 by the Indian Council of Medical Research and others, was 20.8 per cent and 8.7 per cent respectively. Prior studies showed that in Manipur, the prevalence rate of HCV is 55 to 80 per cent among IDUs, as opposed to 22 to 33 per cent HIV prevalence among them.
'The main objective is to create awareness about viral Hepatitis in the region. The epidemic is at our doorstep, with people getting infected, testing positive and some deaths being reported. However, NGOs and the government continue to ignore the spread of the disease,' said Ketho, general secretary of Hepatitis Coalition of Nagaland (HEPCON).
With much of the focus being restricted to HIV-AIDS and cancer awareness, HCV often escapes attention. With no proper cure or vaccine, course-related HCV treatment is also considered too expensive. People with HCV are prone to develop chronicity that can lead to liver damages. Research show that close to 75 to 85 per cent HCV patients develop chronicity, as opposed to Hepatitis-B patients (HBV).
'Intravenous drug users are the most vulnerable. HCV prevalence is much higher than that of HIV. This indicates that there is a bigger pool of HCV patients among IDUs,' said Gajendra Kumar Medhi, doctor and scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research.
Another factor responsible for the high prevalence of HCV amongst IDUs is needle-sharing. Even with efforts to promote safe injecting practices, the prevalence of needle-sharing is quite high. Users may lessen sharing of syringes, but indirect sharing is widely practiced. Nearly 50 to 70 per cent IDUs admitted to sharing accessories like common containers for drug preparation, filter cotton and rinse water.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/varanasi/16-kids-fall-ill-after-taking-mess-food/articleshow/31938778.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Varanasi
Breaking News:
16 kids fall ill after taking mess food
TNN | Mar 13, 2014, 01.43 PM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
VARANASI: As many as 16 children of a school of differently-abled children fell ill after consuming adulterated food in Lachhrampur locality of Azamgarh district. They were admitted to the district hospital for treatment on Wednesday.
Nine children were discharged after treatment while seven seriously ill children are still under treatment. The district magistrate has ordered a probe by district basic siksha adhikari into the incident. According to reports, students of Pre-Integrated Deaf and Dumb School took meal at the hostel mess on Tuesday night. After the meal, some of them started vomiting. Their condition started deteriorating on Wednesday and were immediately rushed to the district hospital.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/Home/Environment/Flora-Fauna/Department-plans-vaccination-against-Kyasanur-Forest-Disease/articleshow/32218393.cms

You are here: News Home Environment  » Flora & Fauna
Breaking News:
Department plans vaccination against Kyasanur Forest Disease
Vinobha KT Vinobha KT,TNN | Mar 17, 2014, 11.21 PM IST
READ MORE Wenlock Hospital | Kyasanur Forest Disease
RELATED
MANGALORE: Dakshina Kannada district Health and Family Welfare department has sent a proposal to the government seeking approval to administer vaccine against Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) in identified areas in Dakshina Kannda district.
The decision was taken in the wake of a suspected case of KFD reported at Beluvai in Moodbidri near here. District health and family welfare officer HS Shivakumar said that a proposal has been sent to the department to resume the KFD vaccine administration programme, which was stopped in 2010.
'The last case of KFD, a tick-borne viral disease with hemorrhagic manifestations, was reported in the district in 2006. A suspected case of KFD has been reported at Beluvai two months ago. The Elisa test report on samples of the woman, who was suffering from fever, migraine and other symptoms, suggested KFD positive. However, it was found negative through the RTPCR investigations conducted at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. At present, the woman is recovering at Government Wenlock Hospital. As a precautionary measure, we are planning to administer KFD vaccines to selected areas in Beluvai and other places in the district,' the DHO said.
A monkey was found dead at forest near Venoor recently and the tick from its carcass has been sent for analysis to Regional Institute for KFD, Shimoga. Meanwhile, a male patient diagnosed with KFD hailing from Thirthahalli is undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit of Wenlock Hospital. Hence, a survey will be conducted in all areas in the district, which are prone to the spread of KFD, Shivakumar said adding that administering KFD vaccine to individuals of the age group of 7 - 65 would help prevent the spread of disease.
Shivakumar said that no positive case of KFD has been reported in the district after 2006.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/preventive-footandmouth-vaccination-campaign-begins/article5808799.ece

animal
Authorities identified nine districts in Tamil Nadu where they also administered vaccine for Haemorrhagic Septicaemia along with the foot-and-mouth vaccine
The Animal Husbandry department has launched a preventive foot and mouth vaccination drive in the State, which will be completed by Friday.
Giving details to The Hindu, the department authorities said an elaborate plan was prepared last month and video conferencing was organised in Chennai with district Collectors. The district administration was informed of the need for the campaign. The panchayat presidents on their part managed to bring the cattle to a common place in many parts of the State. A senior officer in the department said the 21-day vaccination drive began on March 1. The department would also hold a mop up drive in which left out cattle would be covered. Till last Friday, a total of 45.15 lakh cattle had been administered the vaccine. Nearly 2,350 veterinary assistant surgeons with the help of 1,400 livestock inspectors, 310 trainee livestock inspectors and 150 B.Vsc interns were pressed into service for the drive. The team so far administered 54.67 lakh dosages of the vaccine.
Another officer said the authorities identified nine districts in the State where they also administered vaccine for Haemorrhagic Septicaemia along with the foot-and-mouth vaccine simultaneously. This was a dangerous bacterial disease, which could cause heavy mortality in the cattle. Only in these nine districts the disease was prevalent, the officer said.
Every day the vaccination drive began at 6 a.m. and continued for the next four hours. Similarly in the evening the drive was conducted between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. The department totally procured one crore needles and sent them to the district for vaccination, the officer said.
Chitra Srinivasan, a cattle farm owner in Tiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur district said the officials came to her village nearly 10 days ago with vaccines. This time around the cold storage system was well maintained by the authorities. She said: “With the government launching a preventive vaccination drive now, the cattle owners can hope that the foot-and-mouth epidemic will not spread like last year.”
S. Vaidyanathan, a cattle owner in Madurai said in Andalpuram area near Pazhanganatham, the officials came on March 7. They brought small quantities of vaccines which were administered to the cattle in the surroundings.B. Chandramouli having a cattle farm in Padappai in Kancheepuram district said everyday a team comprising veterinary assistant surgeon, livestock inspector and trainee veterinarians visited every village with a small quantity of vaccination.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ludhiana/2-confirmed-case-of-swine-flu-in-Ludhiana/articleshow/32410483.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Ludhiana
Breaking News:
2 confirmed case of swine flu in Ludhiana
TNN | Mar 21, 2014, 12.23 PM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
LUDHIANA: 2 confirmed case of swine flu: Two confirmed cases of swine flu were reported in the city on Thursday. Two women from Ludhiana and Jalandhar have been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana. Till now, four cases of swine flu have been confirmed in city.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/bengaluru/Monkey-Fever-Outbreak-has-Health-Official-on-Their-Toes/2014/03/22/article2123589.ece

Email 0
Monkey fever, a viral disease characterised by headache and haemorrhage, is sweeping through parts of Shimoga, Chikmagalur and Dakshina Kannada districts.
Also called the Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), it spreads through the bite of a forest tick which carries the disease-causing virus from monkeys and other hosts to humans. The Health Department has already recorded 74 cases of monkey fever, and has stepped up efforts to identify the affected, and take preventive measures in Thirthahalli and Hosanagar taluks of Shimoga and other affected districts.
The department has deputed a mobile unit with a doctor and two nurses to create awareness among people about the disease. According to officials, they have covered 98 per cent of the houses in the targeted area in Shimoga and given 4,500 bottles of medicated oil to families who visit forests. Deputy Commissioner Vipul Bansal said the first case was reported from Kannangi in Thirthahalli. “As per protocol, people living in targeted areas close to the forest are vaccinated for five years in a particular season. After the incident, all have been vaccinated,” said Bansal. He said that after a case of monkey fever was reported four months back, blood samples were taken from patients and sent for testing. After confirmation, a house-to-house survey was taken up. People have also been urged to notify authorities if they spot a dead monkey. “Dead monkeys have to be buried 5 km away from the village and all people in the area have to be vaccinated,” he said. District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli said the disease does not have any specific treatment. As in other types of fever, treatment aims at bringing down body temperature, said Suragihalli. If the immune system is strong, the disease does not cause any damage, but if it resurfaces within a few weeks, it is dangerous, he said.
The DHO said healthcare workers have been directed to conduct house-to-house surveys and educate families on the disease.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Aata-Dal-scheme-faces-flak-as-3-beneficiary-women-fall-ill/articleshow/32441159.cms

READ MORE Parkash Singh Badal Government | Aata-Dal scheme | Parkash Singh Badal
RELATED
FARIDKOT: The Parkash Singh Badal government's ambitious Aata-Dal scheme has come under a cloud ahead of Parliament elections after three women fell ill after consuming rotis made from wheat supplied under the scheme. Residents of a Faridkot village have complained of foul smell emanating from the wheat being distributed to beneficiaries having blue cards with photo of CM Badal.
Distribution of the wheat at a time of elections has also come under attack from opposition Congress, which has termed it a violation of model code of conduct. Faridkot food supplies controller has been asked to investigate the quality of the highly subsidized wheat, sources said.
A villager had complained to Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal during his visit to Faridkot on Wednesday about the poor quality wheat being distributed among beneficiaries. He had waved poor quality rotis, made from wheat supplied by the government, at Badal during a rally.
Faridkot deputy commissioner Mohammad Tayyab has asked district food supplies controller to investigate the matter. Confirmed receipt of a complaint regarding the quality of wheat, he said, 'Some persons had sent a complaint about the quality of wheat and that some women have fallen ill.' He however said there is no bar on distributing of wheat even after model code of conduct, but political figures could not distribute it.
Gurdev Kaur, Baljit Kaur and Harjinder Kaur of Machaki Khurd village were admitted to Faridkot civil hospital on Thursday after they complained of heaviness and illness after consuming rotis made from wheat supplied by the government. 'The wheat is very poor in quality and a bad smell was emanating from it', said Machaki Khurd residents Charanjit Kaur and Harjinder Singh.
The villagers have stopped using the wheat and alleged that the wheat was supplied a few days ago after the model code of conduct came into force. The wheat bags have the logo of Punjab government.
Officials of food and supplies department have taken samples of the wheat and also visited the affected women at the hospital. Food supplies inspector Manjinder Singh said that the samples were being sent for investigations.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Cases-of-malaria-dengue-on-decline-in-Ahmedabad/articleshow/32502792.cms

Cases of malaria, dengue on decline in Ahmedabad
Piyush Mishra Piyush Mishra,TNN | Mar 22, 2014, 07.19 PM IST
READ MORE substandard food | malaria | Health department | DENGUE
RELATED
AHMEDABAD: According to the latest data by the Health department of AMC, city has recorded a decline in the cases of malaria, dengue, typhoid and cholera in March 2014 compared to March 2013. Though chikungunya cases slightly increased in the same period.
Compared to 545 cases of malaria in March 2013, 120 cases have been reported in March 2014 (till March 17). Not a single case of dengue has been recorded during March 2014 compared to 17 cases in March 2013. The city saw a dip in cases of Typhoid. As many as 72 cases of typhoid were reported in the city until March 17 in this month compared to 161 cases in March 2013.
In terms of water-borne diseases, the first 17 days of March have seen 321 cases of diarrhoea and vomiting in the city while March 2013 had reported 372 cases. In case of cholera and chikunguniya, only one case was reported.
In an exercise to keep a check on substandard food, the health department of AMC collected Rs 7850 in fines from 11 shops in Nikol, Khokhra, Ghodasar, Vadaj and Nava Vadaj for selling sub standard coriander powder, chilli powder and turmeric powder. The shops Umiya Masala, Vardayini Masala gruh udyog and Pistol Masala among others were fined. Since January 2014, the health department has collected 504 food samples from different parts in the city. Out of 504, 36 samples have been found sub-standard and results of 89 samples are yet to come. The department has initiated action against the shops selling these food products.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.assamtimes.org/node/10231

Submitted by AT News on
Sun, 23/03/2014 - 09:06
At least 15 girls from a Dibrugarh university hostel have been undergoing treatment of food poisoning after they had their lunch on Saturday evening.
According to information, initially one of them fell ill and complained of stomach ache after she took lunch in the evening. Her condition is believed to have been serious even after she was shifted to the Assam Medical College Hospital.
Hours after it, at least 15 girls complained of stomach ache and vomiting one after  another forcing the authorities to rush them to the hospital. The reason is yet to be ascertained.  
Tags: 




http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/kerala/Drug-resistant-TB-Cases-on-the-Rise/2014/03/23/article2125481.ece

Email 0
Incidences of Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), often referred to as Category 4 TB, are on the rise in the state.
This happens at a time when the state is trying to contain the rising frequency of fresh TB cases. MDR-TB occurs when a person diagnosed with TB skips the mandatory six-month treatment.  It leaves the patient resistant to two powerful first-line treatment anti-TB drugs -- isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RMP).
Its worst ramification is that an MDR-TB patient can spread the disease to many healthy people. Currently, Kerala has around 1,000 such cases and Ernakulam tops the list with 67 cases.
S Jayasankar, state TB Officer and Additional Director of Health Services, said that an MDR-TB patient would contract the same type of TB to others and not the category 1-TB.  “MDR-TB destroys immunity and the patient will have to go for daily injection for six months, along with other medicines. But this option is helpful only when it is diagnosed at an early stage,” he said.
As per doctors, the only effective way to prevent it is to make TB patients undergo their full course of treatment.
“Many tend to discontinue medicine once they start showing some improvement. After taking medicine initially, the cough stops in some cases. These patients can discontinue the medicine thinking that they are cured. While in cases where the cough persists, some patients discontinue the treatment assuming that the medicine has not made any substantial difference. They come under the grip of MDR- TB,” he pointed out.
Even if the sputum of the patient shows no traces of TB bacteria after two months of medicine, the patient might not be fully cured.
“Only 80 per cent of the disease might be cured, rest remains hidden waiting for a chance to rear its head. The saddest part is that many people are unaware of it,” said Suma, Ernakulam TB officer.  Officials also pointed out that violation of protocols by private doctors worsens the situation.
“They follow a tailor-made regimen and are not interested in curing the disease completely. By not adhering to WHO protocols, they use drugs under fluoroquinolones group, which is not the right drug. These drugs can easily show TB negative after two months of usage. But it is only a temporary relief,” Jayasankar said.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolhapur/Health-department-survey-identifies-12-new-leprosy-cases-in-district/articleshow/32626506.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Kolhapur
Breaking News:
Health department survey identifies 12 new leprosy cases in district
Piyush Bhusari Piyush Bhusari,TNN | Mar 25, 2014, 03.55 AM IST
READ MORE state health department | acting assistant director | World Health Organisation
RELATED
Kolhapur: As many as 12 new cases of leprosy have been detected in Kolhapur district, according to a survey carried out by the state health department between January 30 and February 13. Of the affected persons, four are women, while child patient has been identified at Panhala taluka.
'Surprisingly, the Gaganbawda block which hasn't recorded any leprosy case since the last two years, has produced as many as four cases including two men and two women. Of these cases, three are of multi-bacillary (MB) nature, which means that the patients are in advanced stage of leprosy. Of the total cases registered in the district, 10 are from rural areas,' said Prajakta Patil, acting assistant director (leprosy), Kolhapur district, state health department.
Besides Gaganbawda, two cases have been recorded in Panhala taluka and a case each has been registered in Kagal, Radhanagari, Gadhinglaj, Hatkanagale and Shirol talukas.
'Of the newly detected cases in the district, 58% are of MB. The rise in such cases can be attributed to a robust detection system, which has been put in place bring the disease under the surveillance of treatment. However, at the same time it shows lack of proper training on the part of multi-purpose workers as well as primary health centre staff. The cases in Gaganbawda should have been identified very early,' Patil said.
'We have asked the staff to bring each and every case to the notice of respective medical officers so that timely action can be initiated. The high percentage of MB cases underlines the need for detection at an early stage and prompt treatment,' she said, adding, 'To increase surveillance as well as treatment, we have been conducting training workshops for health workers. As many as nine batches of 30 workers each have been trained so far.'
She said the health department is currently conducting surveys at urban slum areas in the city and Ichalkaranji. 'The survey is currently on and we have identified some cases, but I cannot comment on it unless we prepare a report. The report is likely to be made once the survey finishes later this week,' Patil said.
Moreover, the health department is also planning to conduct a survey in the Ajara block in April-May.
Health authorities had launched a 12-day survey across the district in the wake of an 'alarming rise' in the number of patients detected with leprosy over the past one year. Compared to 156 leprosy cases in 2012-13, the health officials had detected 182 such cases in the district till December last year.
Patil said that though there has rise in the number of leprosy cases, the prevalence rate is not even one case per 10,000 people and the disease is well within its normal range.
In case of leprosy patients, a cough or a sneeze sends thousands of mycobacterium leprae into the air. Though 80% of leprosy cases are not infectious, the remaining 20% are. Since no vaccine has yet been developed for leprosy, any person with low immunity can fall prey to it, say experts.
The global target to eliminate leprosy set by the World Health Organisation (WHO) was achieved in 2000.
Raising an alarm
About leprosy
*Leprosy is a chronic infection caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium leprae, an acid-fast and rod-shaped bacillus
* Mycobacterium leprae multiplies very slowly and the incubation period of the disease is about five years
* Symptoms can take as long as 20 years to appear. Leprosy is not highly infectious. It is transmitted via droplets from the nose and mouth, during close and frequent contacts with untreated cases
* Untreated leprosy can cause progressive and permanent damage to skin, nerves, limbs and eyes
* According to World Health Organisation, early diagnosis and treatment with multidrug therapy remains the key in eliminating the disease
Survey findings




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolhapur/35-TB-cases-in-Kolhapur-not-notified/articleshow/32596934.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Kolhapur
Breaking News:
35% TB cases in Kolhapur not notified
Abhijeet Patil Abhijeet Patil,TNN | Mar 24, 2014, 02.08 PM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
KOLHAPUR: The fight against tuberculosis (TB) is proving a stiff battle with almost 35% cases in the city not being notified to the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). Civic health department officials said despite reminders, private doctors had failed to provide details of the TB patients admitted in their hospitals could have serious consequences.
KMC officials identified 561 cases between January 2013 and February 2014 through their quarterly surveys. However, of these, the private hospitals had notified just 366 TB cases to the civic body.
In the absence of accurate data, the civic administration finds it difficult to judge the cure rate of the disease. The failure could lead to a rise in the number of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB) cases, officials said.
Coordinator of Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP) Amol Mane said, 'In last one year, we have appealed thrice to the private practitioners to provide the details of the TB patients either diagnosed or receiving treatment in their hospitals. However, despite the awareness campaigns, very few doctors have provided us the details.'
A central government notification in 2012 mandates all healthcare providers, including clinical establishments run by the private doctors or NGOs, to provide the details of the every TB case to the local authorities every month. The step was taken in order to ensure proper TB diagnosis and case management, reduce TB transmission and fight the emergence of drug-resistant TB cases.
The notification states, 'Early diagnosis and complete treatment of TB is the cornerstone of TB prevention and control strategy. Inappropriate diagnosis and irregular or incomplete treatment with anti-TB drugs may contribute to complications, disease spread and emergence of drug resistant TB.'
Health department officials said that since there are more private hospitals than government medical setups, patients approach the private doctors after the initial symptoms are noticed.
'Last year, we found eight cases of MDR TB in the city. This year, two cases of MDR TB have been reported. The cases may increase if the hospitals fail to notify the RNTCP department,' added Mane.
A Kolhapur Medical Association member said, 'The doctors usually refer the patient to the KMC diagnosis centre only if they find it to manage the patient's treatment. The doctors get fees from the patients admitted to their hospitals, while the patient can avail free treatment once the case is notified with the civic administration.'
People living with HIV/AIDS face a higher risk of developing extra-pulmonary TB and therefore the notification of such cases too becomes important as the patient has to be given treatment for both the diseases.
'Since January last year, about 15% of the TB patients also had HIV infection. They are given simultaneous treatment for HIV and TB. The private practitioners have been told to test for the HIV infection in case a TB patient is approached to them,' said Mane.
Despite the reluctance of the doctors to notify the TB cases, the cure rate has increased from 81% in 2012 to 85% last year.
'We have been able to improve the cure rate of the patients referred to KMC-run clinical centres. However, the number of patients taken on treatment has dropped from 514 in 2012 to 484 last year, since very few doctors have notified the disease to the KMC,' said Mane.
Union health ministry guidelines state that efforts should be made to examine at least 220 persons per lakh population per quarter of the year for suspected TB. KMC has decided that the work of sputum collection and transportation will be assigned to NGOs, who will be given Rs 24,000 per annum for providing the service so that more patients are directly referred to KMC-run microscopic testing centres.
Disease Dossier
Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. It is curable and preventable. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected.
Drug Resistance
Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB) is identified when a patient develops resistance to the two most powerful anti-TB drugs, Isoniazid and Rifampicin, in addition to the resistance to any of the Fluoroquinolones and at least one of the three injectable second-line drugs. The symptoms include feeling weak, weight loss, night sweats, coughing, chest pain, and coughing up blood. People not taking medicines regularly as prescribed by the doctor tend to develop the disease again
DOTS Treatment
Directly Observed Treatment Short (DOTS) course is recommended for controlling TB and has been recognised as a highly efficient and cost-effective strategy. Directly observed means that someone watches to make sure people take their daily medicine. It is treated with a standard six-month course of four antimicrobial drugs that are provided with information, supervision and support to the patient by a health worker or trained volunteer. Without such supervision and support, treatment adherence can be difficult and the disease can spread. The vast majority of TB cases can be cured when medicines are provided and taken properly
(Source: World Health organization)




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Pune/Child-TB-cases-drop-in-Pune-PCMC-areas/articleshow/32593417.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Pune
Breaking News:
Child TB cases drop in Pune, PCMC areas
Umesh Isalkar Umesh Isalkar,TNN | Mar 24, 2014, 12.44 PM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
PUNE: Cases of paediatric tuberculosis (TB) have gone down in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad but the number has risen in rural parts of the district. Of the 7,275 cases registered in the state in 2013, about 400 were found in Pune district. While the city reported 201 cases in 2012, the number dropped to 147 a year later.
For 2013, the prevalence rate among children in Maharashtra is 5.6%. TB in children is considered manageable if the rate of prevalence is less than 5%. Experts say paediatric TB is a major threat across social strata as many cases go unreported due to difficulties in diagnosis, ignorance and the stigma attached to it.
'As per guidelines issued by the central TB division, prevalence rate of TB in children less than 14 years old is 5% to 15% of total patients diagnosed. The state reported 1,37,320 cases last year, of which 7,275 i.e. 5.29% were children,' said Manohar Pawar, joint director (TB and leprosy), state public health department.
The main reasons for spread of TB in children are poor socio-economic conditions, illiteracy and ignorance. 'With awareness, vigorous contact tracing of TB patients and administration of chemoprophylaxis to children living in and around TB patients, we will bring it down to less than 5% in near future,' said Pawar.
Children are exposed to the disease primarily through contact with infectious adults and continue to be at risk till adults remain untreated. If the bread-winner in family is ill and not working his children are at risk because of malnutrition which increases susceptibility to TB, Pawar said.
Unlike adults, diagnosing TB in children is an uphill task. 'First, children less than five are unable to expectorate phlegm (sputum) which is needed to isolate mycobacterium. Besides, TB in children is of paucibacillary nature in which yield of mycobacterium is too low to be detected. Besides, cavitary region in lungs that holds mycobacterium are absent in paediatric patients. These factors make diagnosis difficult.
Hence chances of cases going unreported is very high, said paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune branch.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.deccanherald.com/content/395047/kawasaki-disease.html

You are here: Home » Supplements » Metrolife » Kawasaki Disease
Kawasaki Disease
March 28, 2014, DHNS:
Helpline
Financial support is required for four-and-half-year-old Sanjay who is suffering from Kawasaki Disease and Embryonal Rhabdomysarcoma. 
He has undergone surgery and chemotherapy at Mazumdar Shaw Medical Center, Narayana Hrudayalaya. 
Send in your donations to Anand Raj K, account number 05491050086249, HDFC Bank, Electronic City branch.
The IFSC number is 0000549.
For details, call 09945503497.
Photo Gallery
Police stop members of Left Students Unions during their rally against State Government's...
Devotees carry an idol of Lord Ganesha to a pandal for the upcoming Ganesh festival in Nagpur...
Kashmiri people display walnuts for sale at Aalamguni in South Kashmirs Shopian district...
Members of Left Students Unions during their rally against State Government's education policy...
Jammu and Kashmir policemen march during their attestation cum- passing out parade at Manigam...
Several coaches of a Western Railway train derailed near Vile Parle station in Mumbai on...
Devotees carry an idol of Lord Ganesha to a pandal for the upcoming Ganesh festival in...
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Chief Executive Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes unveiling the Dawn at the...
Army soldiers enacting the 1965 War during a function to commemorate its Golden Jubilee...
Army personnel enacting the 1965 War during a function to commemorate its Golden Jubilee...




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/visakhapatnam/One-more-swine-flu-case-in-Visakhapatnam/articleshow/32926522.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Visakhapatnam
Breaking News:
One more swine flu case in Visakhapatnam
TNN | Mar 30, 2014, 01.32 AM IST
READ MORE swine flu in Visakhapatnam | swine flu case in Visakhapatnam | Swine flu
RELATED
VISAKHAPATNAM: A 35-year-old man from Sriharipuram tested positive for swine flu on Saturday, making it the second H1N1 case in the Port City since January this year. The patient is undergoing treatment at a private hospital and is on ventilator.
Dr LDSH Devi, nodal officer for swine flu in the district, said, 'The man was admitted with fever and usual flu-like symptoms on March 26. His blood samples were sent to a lab in Mumbai for tests and the reports, which reached the city on Saturday, confirmed that he was suffering from swine flu. He is a little serious and is on ventilator. The patient has a travel history and had recently been to Mahabaleshwar and Tirupati. However, none of the family members have been affected and necessary medication was administered to them as a precautionary measure.'
A 28-year-old seven-month pregnant woman from Muralinagar died of swine flu on January 29, making it the first H1N1 case and death in the city since March 2013. According to district health officials, while there were five H1N1 deaths in 2009, the number rose to 10 in 2010 and two died in 2012.
'There's no reason to panic as it's just a sporadic swine flu case. We are doing house-to-house surveillance to ensure there's no chance of swine flu becoming a pandemic in the city,' stated Dr Devi.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/7-fall-ill-after-drinking-school-cooler-water/articleshow/32925452.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Goa
Breaking News:
7 fall ill after drinking school cooler water
TNN | Mar 30, 2014, 01.08 AM IST
READ MORE school cooler water | health officer | Gokuldas Sawant Marcaim
RELATED
PONDA: Seven students of Government High School, Kundaim, complained of vomiting and giddiness after drinking water from the school's water cooler on Saturday morning. Aged between 16 and 13, the students were sent home after receiving treatment at the Marcaim primary health centre (PHC). Health officials however refuted the possibility of water poisoning.
'It was a case of fear psychosis. Seeing one child who had drunk the water complain about vomiting and giddiness, others followed suit. This shows the students feared they had drunk contaminated water,' said Dr Gokuldas Sawant, Marcaim health officer.
He added that as a precautionary measure health officials have taken a water sample which will be examined at a laboratory of the directorate of health services, Panaji. The report is awaited.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.heraldgoa.in/index.php

First victory for Sporting Clube
MAPUSA: Sporting Clube de Goa tasted their first victory of the campaign as they grounded Curtorim Gymkhana 5-1 in the third round match of the Goa Professional League, at Duler Stadium, here, on Monday. Sporting Clube led 2-1 at half time.  .. More




http://rajasthanpatrika.patrika.com/news/typhoid-increasing-patient/1138870.html





http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/swine-flu-death-reported-in-visakhapatnam/article5858545.ece

Updated: April 1, 2014 15:41 IST
Swine flu death reported in Visakhapatnam
Tweet
A 35-year-old man from Sriharipuram area of the city had succumbed to swine flu while undergoing treatment at a city hospital on Tuesday. He was admitted in the hospital on March 26 with pneumonia and spitting blood with cough. This was the second death due to swine flu in the city during this year after a woman in her mid twenties and in advanced stage of pregnancy died on January 29.
He was immediately put on ventilator and doctors started treatment for swine flu and the test confirmed swine flu on March 28 and he continued to be on ventilator as his lung had collapsed. Swine flu symptoms were noticed two or three days before he was admitted in the hospital, District Nodal Officer for swine flu L.B.H.S. Devi said.
The victim went on a South India tour one month ago but he could not have contacted swine flu during the tour since swine flu would come out in about 10 days after the virus was contacted, Dr. Devi said. Fifteen members of his family were given preventive treatment.
The H1N1 virus that causes swine flu has entered India in 2009 through foreigners or Indians returning from abroad and several deaths were reported at different places. Visakhapatnam, a place where more foreigners come for a visit or more Indian travel back to the country, recorded highest number of swine flu deaths in the State after Hyderabad. The number of cases has come down very much at present but since the virus is still there in the atmosphere, persons with low immunity level would be affected, Dr. Devi said.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/Cases-of-chicken-pox-go-up-with-mercury/articleshow/33193801.cms

Cases of chicken pox go up with mercury
Janani Sampath Janani Sampath,TNN | Apr 4, 2014, 12.28 AM IST
READ MORE rising temperature | peak summer | chicken pox cases
RELATED
CHENNAI: The rising temperature has led to an increase in the number of chicken pox cases, normally common during peak summer. This year, the onset is quite early and is affecting mostly children. 'The virus is highly contagious and the number of cases escalates especially between March and May. Parents should keep their kids at home in case they pick up the infection as it could easily spread to other children in school if precautions are not taken,' said senior consultant paediatrician Dr S Balasubramanian of Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital, who treats nearly 10 cases a week.
Chicken pox is a mild but highly infectious condition caused by the Varicella-Zoster virus. Patients begin showing symptoms of prolonged fever and suffer from decreased appetite, headache and sore throat. They develop blisters and rashes which quickly spread all over the body. Clusters of blisters can last several days with rashes of all stages showing up simultaneously. 'The infection is self-limiting and the incubation period for chicken pox is generally 10-14 days. It is not a serious illness so there is no reason to be alarmed,' said the doctor. Many people resorted to remedies such as covering the patient with neem leaves which was not advisable, he added. 'It is imperative they take the child to a doctor immediately. There are different strains of viruses and if the infection is severe it may lead to major complications involving the lungs and the liver,' he said.
Paediatric critical care specialist Dr Bala Ramachandran said it was important to vaccinate children against the virus. 'We are seeing a lot of children with mild variety of chicken pox as they have not completed their vaccine course fully. They have only partial immunity so they are susceptible to the infection,' he said. Dr Ramachandran added that almost 95% of the cases did not need hospitalisation.
Doctors have also been seeing a few cases of chicken pox in adults, particularly pregnant women. Dr Bharaneedharan, general physician, Global Health City, said cases in adults are expected to go up by May. 'Pregnant women undergo hormonal changes so they are vulnerable to chicken pox. It is advisable for people who travel a lot to get vaccinated against the disease and Vitamin C-rich food would also help,' he said.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Coimbatore/surveillance-stepped-up-after-sporadic-cases-of-chickenpox/article5870559.ece

Updated: April 4, 2014 10:37 IST
Surveillance stepped up after sporadic cases of chickenpox
government health care
22 cases of chickenpox were reported in February and 17 in March
The Health Department has stepped up surveillance in rural areas of Coimbatore district after sporadic cases of chickenpox were reported in the past two months.
Official sources told The Hindu here on Wednesday that 22 cases of chickenpox were reported in February and 17 in March.
All patients have been admitted into ‘isolation wards’ in one of the nine Government Hospitals or at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.
Officials added that the number of cases was not high compared to the previous years.
However, the Department was keeping a close watch on rural areas as the number of chickenpox cases was expected to increase as the summer season advances.
The department has identified the blocks in which the cases were reported and had deployed mazdoors (health workers) to undertake cleaning works.
All the 47 primary health centres in the district have also been instructed to report any case of chickenpox immediately.
Counselling
The Health Department officials were counselling the patients’ relatives and friends on health education such as how to administer treatment, adopt personal hygiene measures and ensure the disease was contained.
Further, officials said they were urging the residents in rural areas to consume tender coconut water, fruits and lots of water to avoid dehydration and chickenpox as well. The officials were also placing a lot of emphasis on water quality as it was among the major carriers of the disease during summer.
The water scarcity forces people to consume water even from unhygienic sources such broken pipelines.
The local bodies in the district have been instructed to immediately attend to any breakages in drinking water pipelines and undertake frequent cleaning of the water tanks.




http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-maharashtra-tops-the-chart-in-dengue-malaria-deaths-1975848

Maharashtra tops the chart in dengue, malaria deaths
Monday, 7 April 2014 - 6:15am IST                                                                 | Place: Mumbai                 | Agency: dna
Comments
Maharashtra topped the country in dengue and malaria deaths last year.
The National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) reported 48 dengue and 70 malaria deaths in the state in 2013.
NVBDCP director Dr Ashish Dhariwal explains why. “Unregulated construction activity, elevated levels of migration to the city and poor water storage facilities are the main reasons,” he said.
Mumbai, then, should be a sitting duck. “It has many abandoned textile mills and rail and ship yards that are ideal breeding grounds for the dengue mosquito,' Dhariwal said.
With the outbreak of the disease in rural Maharashtra, Haryana and Karnataka, the situation is turning out to be even more alarming. Till now, dengue was widely believed to be restricted mostly to metropolitan cities.
So far in 2014, Maharashtra has recorded lesser number of dengue cases (132) than Kerala (380) and Tamil Nadu (339). That's cold comfort.
For one, “though dengue has become a global phenomenon, there are no drugs or vaccines available to curtail the disease.” Dhariwal says.
“Mumbai's proximity to the coast and rains are the other factors. We have seen prolific breeding of dengue mosquito in big cities,” he explains.
On malaria also, the state doesn't have much hope. The annual incidence of malaria is higher in Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, but Maharashtra has more deaths.
However, India is doing much better in mosquito control than Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Thailand and Indonesia. But dengue remains a challenge, Dhariwal admits.
A total of 359 malaria deaths and 167 dengue deaths were reported across India in 2013. This year, there have been seven malaria deaths and two dengue-related deaths, both in Kerala.
Deaths due to dengue:




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolhapur/Blame-poor-sanitation-and-hygiene-for-three-fold-rise-in-dengue-cases/articleshow/33350087.cms

READ MORE World Health Organisation | Kolhapur Medical Association | Dengue cases
RELATED
KOLHAPUR: The focus on tackling vector-borne diseases this World Health Day is apt for the district that has reported a continuous rise in such ailments over the last few years. There has been a three-fold rise in the number of dengue cases in the last two years.
Last year, 232 persons were infected as against 68 in 2012. Altogether 113 cases of dengue were reported in 2010. The district health department organized a campaign in 2011, which helped to reduce the number to 12. In 2013, six persons died due to dengue and seven in the preceding year.
More than 415 people were infected by dengue in the last four years, whereas the number of patients infected with chikungunya and malaria during the same period stood at 108 and 547, respectively.
District malaria officer G M Gambre admitted that there has been an alarming rise in the number of dengue cases over the last two years. 'We are taking precautions and spreading message among people to take preventive measures to stop the spread of disease.'
The Aedes aegypti mosquito is the main vector that transmits the viruses that cause dengue. The viruses are passed on to humans through the bites of an infective female aedes mosquito, which mainly acquires the virus while feeding on the blood of an infected person.
These mosquitoes breed in clean water, often stored in overhead tanks or accumulated in scrap tubes and tyres of vehicles for more than a week. Dengue infection rates are higher outdoors and during daytime, when these mosquitoes bite most frequently.
The medical fraternity attributed the rise in the number of patients to the lack of personal hygiene among people and governments failure to provide basic amenities of proper drainage system and safe drinking water.
President of the Kolhapur Medical Association (KMA)Anand Kamat said, 'The rise in the vector-borne diseases is due to inefficiency of government in providing safe drinking water and proper management of sewage and drainage.'
'Vector-borne diseases spread through organisms that act as carriers of the parasites and pathogens causing the ailment. The most common ailments are malaria and dengue,' he said.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that the environmental changes in the world are leading to an increase in the breeding of vectors and is a cause of concern for the spread of vector-borne diseases across the globe.
Medical practitioner Jayant Watve said, 'People do not realise the importance of personal hygiene until they fall ill. The spurt in vector-borne diseases is seen during rainy season. The lack of sanitation and access of safe drinking water are major problems in the district especially during the rainy season.' He added that patients are advised to keep their surrounding clean and dry. They are also told to avoid storing water in open utensils and consult a doctor immediately in case of fever and muscle and joint pain.
The district health department will be organising a door-to-door health campaign for a fortnight from April 7-21. The programme will be a part of the National Vector-Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) with the slogan 'small creatures, big threat'.
'District health department employees will visit villages to create awareness about methods to prevent vector-borne diseases,' said Gambre.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-it-s-april-and-3-cases-of-malaria-detected-1975827

Comments
It is not even remotely close to monsoons but malaria has already started claiming lives in the city. Up to three cases of malaria related deaths have been suspected to have occurred since January this year, said civic health officials. 'We are suspecting deaths due to malaria and the cases are being investigated by the death inquiry committee constituted by the municipal corporation,' said Dr Mangala Gomare, epidemiologist, public health department, BMC.
The city has seen 1,600 cases of malaria since January this year, with three suspected deaths. According to the civic officials, last year saw nearly 10,000 cases – a welcome decline from 79,000 cases in 2010. Since January, doctors observed sporadic cases of malaria involving high grade fever, headache, dehydration and fatigue.
'In 2013, we had recorded lesser cases of malaria as compared to previous years but we must not get complacent,' said Dr Arun Bamne, executive health officer, BMC. Nearly 30 people fell victim to malaria last year.
Experts have noted a disturbing trend with dengue cases being reported throughout the year. Earlier, the virus was found to be breeding only during the monsoon. So far, this year 78 cases have been recorded. Dengue had claimed 11 lives last year.
Dipali Chakor, 26, a south Mumbai resident, was afflicted to painful dengue disease, two weeks ago. She survived after putting up a tough fight. 'I had developed fever and rashes on my body for five days after which I consulted a doctor. I was admitted in the hospital for at least a week before showing any signs of recovery. I used to record fever as high 105 degree fahrenheit,' said Dipali.
Dr Pratit Samdani, Dipali's consulting physician at Bhatia Hospital, Tardeo, said that she had come with high grade fever, swollen face, boils and red rashes across her body. 'Her blood tests for dengue tested positive. Apart from a stark dip in platelet count, her liver was majorly swollen. She was suffering from dengue hepatitis and showed a major involvement of effect to the liver,' said Dr Samdani.
'With no specific treatment, nearly 20% of dengue cases become complicated. The Aedes aegypti mosquito breeds indoors in man-made containers, flower pots, trays etc.,' said Dr Mangala Gomare, epidemiologist, BMC.
Experts say that the bugs have become stronger than the drugs since the past few years. Mosquito-borne viruses are developing resistance to insecticides and undergoing deadly mutations. 'Climate change, environmental temperatures, humidity are allowing insects to breed in places they did not breed before,' said Dr Dhanashree Kelkar, consultant, infectious diseases at privately-run Global Hospitals, Parel.
'Earlier, dengue used to subside after four to five months of monsoon. But, the mosquito as well as the virus have adapted to climate change. The bug has become stronger than the drugs and is also mutating to adapt favourably to climate change. Otherwise there is no way that a mosquito or virus could have bred in such hot weather in Mumbai. But we are still recording sporadic cases and the situation will only get worse in monsoon,' said Dr Samdani.
5




http://www.newindianexpress.com/nation/8-Jharkhand-Kids-Fall-Ill-After-Eating-Outdated-Biscuits/2014/04/07/article2155123.ece

Email 0
Eight children fell ill after eating outdated biscuits in Jharkhand's Dhanbad district Monday, police said.
According to police, the children living in slum areas of Jharia locality in the district, about 240 km from here, ate the biscuits after picking up the packets from a pond situated close by.
They were then admitted to a hospital after they took ill. The condition of four of them was stated to be serious.
Police are trying to ascertain how the outdated biscuits packed in a polythene bag reached the pond.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/HC-informed-about-increase-in-HIV-cases/articleshow/33407659.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Patna
Breaking News:
HC informed about increase in HIV cases
TNN | Apr 8, 2014, 12.32 AM IST
READ MORE Vikash Jain | Patna Medical College Hospital | HIV cases | HC
RELATED
PATNA: There were only two HIV positive cases in the state in 2002 and, if the state government's stats are to be believed, their number has increased manifold with there being around 1.25 lakh people with HIV in the state.
This was pointed out by advocate Vikash Kumar Pankaj before a division bench of Justice Navin Sinha and Justice Vikash Jain on Monday while the bench was hearing a PIL filed by one Sanjit Singh on the alleged insensitive attitude of different bodies of the state and Union governments towards the dreaded disease.
Pankaj, who is the counsel for the petitioner, pointed out the ambiguity in the records of the state government, saying the Bihar State AIDS Control Society's report suggests there are around 39,000 people in the state with HIV. This number is far less than the number given by the state government. The large gap in the two reports shows they are hardly concerned about the exact number of such persons let alone providing them proper medical facilities, he argued.
Despite the contradictions in the two reports, it can't be ignored that the number of people with HIV was increasing every year, argued Kumar and submitted before the court newspaper reports regarding death of three HIV affected persons at Patna Medical College Hospital. These reports included a TOI report on the death of a woman at the hospital due to alleged lack of sensitivity on the part of hospital authorities.
The PIL has been filed by a person with HIV. The matter will again be heard on Thursday.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Kolhapur/Survey-identifies-4-new-leprosy-cases-in-Kolhapur-3-in-advanced-stage/articleshow/33416410.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Kolhapur
Breaking News:
Survey identifies 4 new leprosy cases in Kolhapur, 3 in advanced stage
Piyush Bhusari Piyush Bhusari,TNN | Apr 8, 2014, 04.41 AM IST
READ MORE World Health Organisation | multidrug therapy | multi-bacillary | leprosy cases
RELATED
KOLHAPUR: Health authorities have come across four new cases of leprosy in Kolhapur city in a survey carried out between March 10 and March 21. Out of these four cases, two are adult women, while a case of a child patient has been identified.
Of the four cases, three are in the multi-bacillary (MB), or advanced, stage, requiring intensive treatment.
The survey was carried out in 10 city areas, including Rajendranagar, Siddharthanagar, Budhwar peth, Dudhali, Gandhinagar, Vikramnagar, Indira vashat and Subhashnagar. Over 60,000 citizens were checked in the process. The survey was a part of the active search for leprosy cases under the National Leprosy Eradication Programme.
'Two cases, including that of a child, have been identified from the Rajendranagar area of Kolhapur, while two others were identified from the Ulpe mala area of the Kasba Bawda block of the city,' said Harshala Vedak, assistant director (leprosy), Kolhapur district, state health department.
'Of these four leprosy cases, three are of multi-bacillary (MB) nature,' Vedak said. 'Apart from Kolhapur city, the Ichalkaranji municipal council area was surveyed as well. 52,376 citizens, including almost 16,000 children, were examined during the process, out of which six cases were found to be suspicious. After the examination, a case of paucibacillary (PB) leprosy, a mild form of the disease, was confirmed,' she said.
Vedak said that once a case is confirmed to be positive, various tests, like voluntary motor testing and sensor testing, are done to avoid any further spread of the disease.
'Regular follow-ups with patients and a contact survey too has been organized to find out if the disease has spread to other people related to the identified patient. The transportation of Mycobacterium leprae through the respiratory mode is the main cause of the disease,' she said.
Vedak said that though there has definitely been a rise in the number of leprosy cases in Kolhapur, the prevalence rate is not even one case per 10,000 and the disease is well within its normal range. 'Kolhapur district, including the city block, has a prevalence rate of 0.4, which signifies that the disease is still very well under control,' Vedak pointed out. She accepted that exhaustive search and more awareness campaigns is the need of the hour to identify any more cases across the district.
'The leprosy health department has a staff of 20, which often makes it difficult to organize surveys and awareness campaigns,' said Vedak.
Health authorities had launched a 12-day leprosy survey across Kolhapur in February 2014 in the wake of an 'alarming rise' in the number of patients detected across the district over the past one year. Compared to 156 leprosy cases in 2012-13, health officials had detected 182 instances across the district last year, till December.
Leprosy is a chronic disease caused by a bacillus, Mycobacterium leprae, an acid-fast, rod-shaped bacillus. M. leprae multiplies very slowly and the incubation period of the disease is about five years. Symptoms can take as long as 20 years to appear. Untreated, leprosy can cause progressive and permanent damage to the skin, nerves, limbs and eyes. Early diagnosis and treatment with multidrug therapy (MDT) remains the key in eliminating the disease as a public health concern, as per the World Health Organisation.
Though 80% of leprosy cases are not infectious, the remaining 20% are. Since no vaccine has yet been developed for leprosy, any person with low immunity can be a prey to the disease, say experts. The global target of leprosy elimination, as set by the World Health Organisation (WHO), was achieved in 2000.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/No-Malaria-Death-in-Karnataka-in-3-Years/2014/04/08/article2156144.ece

Email 0
There has not been a single death in the State due to malaria in three years, said N Shivasailam, Principal Secretary to the Department of Health and Family Welfare.
In 1995, 2.85 lakh cases of malaria were reported and in 2013, the number came down to 13,302, he said.
He was speaking at the World Health Day programme organised by the department at Bangalore Medical College on Monday. This year’s theme, ‘small bite, big threat’, revolved around vector-borne diseases.
He noted that the cases of acute Japanese Encephalitis, Lymphatic Filariasis and other vector-borne diseases, have also come down. However, dengue fever, which was under control till 2012, has been posing problems in urban and semi-urban areas from last year, he said.
“This is due to change in water storage practices and developmental activities. The department has also prevented deaths due to dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome,” he explained.
Diagnosis for dengue and chikungunya are free of cost in 26 districts and the same will be extended to all the 30 districts by 2015 with assistance from the National Health Mission, he added.
Department Commissioner S N Jayaram said health staff should develop a positive attitude towards their work.
“Earlier reports in media have created a poor opinion about the department. Doing good work and creating awareness on a hygienic way of living will not only reduce health complications but also bring a good name to the department,” he said.
Health Director Geetha Nyamagouder, NRHM Mission Director Sathyavathi and Joint  Director of Information Education  and Communication (vector-borne diseases) Dr Devraj were present.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/thiruvananthapuram/Worst-foot-and-mouth-disease-outbreak-in-decade/articleshow/33449815.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Thiruvananthapuram
Breaking News:
Worst foot and mouth disease outbreak in decade
Aswin J Kumar Aswin J Kumar,TNN | Apr 8, 2014, 04.29 PM IST
READ MORE foot and mouth disease outbreak | FMD | union government | the animals | Indian Immunological Limited
RELATED
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The outbreak of foot and mouth disease that spelt doom for cattle and farmers in 2013-14 was the worst attack recorded in the state during the past decade.
Documents procured by TOI through RTI reveal that the livestock numbering 64,260 were infected and 6,100 deaths were reported in 2013.
The magnitude of attack looks enormous when considering the fact that the second maximum number of animals that got affected by FMD was 17,688, which was recorded in 2009.
Ever since the animal husbandry department began vaccination programme in 2005, the number of animals affected by FMD has always ranged between 200- 1,000, not even exceeding 2,000. The lowest number of animals that got infected was recorded in 2012 when 287 animals were found infected with FMD.
The rise in the number of FMD cases in 2013 has always been attributed to the inflow of diseased cattle from neighbouring states.
However, data show that close to one lakh animals were found infected with FMD despite the vaccination drive covering a total of 12 .6 lakh cattle across the state.
Interestingly, no vaccination drive was conducted for goats, sheeps and pigs for the last three years. While fatality was pretty low in 2011 and 2012, the decision to exclude goats and pigs from vaccination programme backfired in 2013. Almost 2,169 goats were infected in 2013 while 930 pigs were infected. None of them were vaccinated. An official who was in-charge of animal disease control project (ADCP) during the FMD outbreak said that goats and pigs were excluded as per the direction of government of India.
'We received dosage only for covering the cattle and buffalo. Goats, sheeps and pigs had to be excluded since the Union government had directed us to do that,' the official said.
Experts said that goats and sheeps act as active carriers of virus, which would have resulted in the spread of disease.
Questions are also raised over why the animals got infected despite carrying out extensive vaccination drive. While RTI information says that Raksha Ovac vaccine was used for vaccination, senior officials admit that there have been supplies of vaccines from private firms as well.
'We do not buy vaccines directly as we receive it from the Centre. There have been instances where we received vaccines that were produced by private companies and not just by Indian Immunological Limited,' the official added. Sources said that although it is recommended to destroy the vaccine vials after a day's drive, most often the vials were brought back to veterinary hospitals that resulted in deterioration of quality.
FMD is caused by picorna virus. There are three serotypes, O, A and Asia - 1. Another type C has not surfaced in India for the past 20 years. ADCP had confirmed that the recent FMD outbreak was caused by the O serotype.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.sinarharian.com.my/semasa/penduduk-disaran-kawal-pembiakan-denggi-1.268858

Penduduk disaran kawal pembiakan denggi
FATHIN ATHIRAH HASLI
SHAH ALAM - Kementerian Kesihatan Malaysia hari ini menggesa penduduk untuk mengambil langkah pencegahan denggi supaya wabak dan kematian denggi dapat dikurangkan.
 
Menteri Kesihatan Malaysia, Datuk Seri Dr S. Subramaniam berkata, daerah Petaling Jaya mencatatkan wabak penularan paling tinggi berbanding dengan daerah lain setakat ini.
 
Oleh itu, pihaknya telah mengambil inisiatif dengan mengadakan satu majlis Mesyuarat Khas Kawalan Denggi di daerah Petaling hari ini bagi mencari penyelesaian dan kaedah penambahbaikan bersama anggota Unit Kawalan Pengakit Bawaan Vektor yang terlibat secara langsung dengan aktiviti kawalan dan pencegahan denggi.
 
'Daerah Petaling mempunyai populasi penduduk yang paling padat dan paling tinggi, sekali gus meningkatkan jumlah kes denggi kepada angka yang paling tinggi di negeri ini, penubuhan pasukan Combi perlu diaktifkan dan dipertingkat di kawasan ini bagi membanteras dan memusnahkan tempat pembiakan nyamuk aedes di lokaliti mereka setiap minggu.
 
'Pasukan Combi perlu digerakkan secara aktif bagi mengekang pembiakan wabak ini, kami juga menyarankan agar projek Combi ditubuhkan di sekolah dan pelajar institusi pengajian supaya pelajar dapat melibatkan diri dengan aktiviti seperti ini secara sukarela dan berterusan bagi membantu kerajaan menangani wabak ini,' katanya dalam satu kenyataan.
 
Sebanyak 26,658 kes denggi dilaporkan di seluruh negara sejak Januari 2014 dan jumlahnya melebihi 6,688 kes berbanding dengan tahun lepas manakala Selangor pula mencatatkan kes sebanyak 14,905 kes iaitu 56 peratus daripada jumlah keseluruhan kes yang dilaporkan di Malaysia.
 
Petaling Jaya telah merekodkan bilangan kes yang paling tinggi kerana jumlah penduduknya yang padat iaitu 23 peratus daripada keseluruhan wabak di Malaysia.
 
Sehubungan dengan itu, beliau mengambil kesempatan untuk menyeru penduduk setempat untuk memberikan kerjasama yang baik dan saling membantu mengurangkan pembiakan nyamuk aedes.




http://www.bangaloremirror.com/bangalore/others/Gastroenteritis-outbreak-just-a-few-water-sips-away/articleshow/33568217.cms

Gastroenteritis outbreak just a few water sips away
By Vandana KamathVandana Kamath, Bangalore Mirror Bureau | Apr 11, 2014, 02.00 AM IST
My Saved articles
As diarrhoea, typhoid, hepatitis cases gain traction, docs know where the blame lies in contaminated water
Rising mercury levels have impacted patient inflow at hospitals across the city: More people are queuing up in front of doctors complaining about infections!
The culprit, so far, is water contamination. Physicians across Bangalore are receiving a large number of patients complaining of medical conditions like gastroenteritis (viral infection) and typhoid fever (bacterial infection), along with symptoms of liver abscess (pus-filled cavity within the liver, with types caused by bacteria as well as amoeba).
CONTAMINATION SUSPECT
Doctors say that water from tankers is the main culprit. Dr Pankaj Singhai, Head of the Department of Internal Medicine, Manipal Hospital, says: 'I have been seeing 2-3 patients daily who fall sick mainly because of water contamination, which in turn leads to E. coli infections and other bacterial and parasitic infections. The root cause of this is probably the tanker water supplied to houses, which many people tend to buy due to insufficient supply of piped water. We do not know how this water is processed, and in case this is consumed, it will lead to people falling sick and getting low-grade fever.'
Doctors say the patients come with symptoms of fever, diarrhoea, and pain in the abdomen. In fact, many cases of hepatitis A and E (both transmitted by contaminated water) have also been on the rise in the city. Cases of water contamination were also reported from Mysore Road and several pockets of Bangalore, causing severe health issues to residents.
While measures like UV filters are popular, doctors say that the best way to purify water is to boil it. 'Only when you boil water can you be sure that the germs have been killed,' Dr Singhai says.
Dr Umesh Jalihal, consultant (surgical) gastroenterologist, MS Ramaiah Memorial Hospital, says: 'Many often tend to eat street food which are sold on carts placed right next to storm water drains, and the virus generally tends to multiply faster in this season.'
The scene is worse in government hospitals. A gastroenterologist at Victoria Hospital sees at least 50-60 patients of hepatitis fever on a daily basis. But many also make the mistake of not drinking enough water during summer, which may lead to dehydration.
Physicians say this is the season of gastroenteritis outbreak, which would later be followed by jaundice. So it pays to be careful, though there's no outbreak as yet. Most acute cases of diarrhoea do come from food handlers, doctors say. 'When it comes to street food, many people come with complaints of acute diarrhoea because of eating chaat and other street food. We do not know what kind of water is mixed into it. There is no outbreak yet and most of the cases have been outpatients,' Dr G M Prasad, general physician of Columbia Asia Hospital says.
TAKE NO CHANCES
» Boil water instead of using UV filters » Say a strict no to street food » Do not be too cautious and dehydrate yourself » Carry a bottle of water wherever you go » In case you see water contamination, report it to the nearest BWSSB office.
You Might Also Like




http://www.hindustantimes.com/newdelhi/two-dengue-cases-reported-in-delhi-first-in-2014/article1-1207172.aspx

Sidhartha Dutta, Hindustan Times ,              New Delhi
|
Updated: Apr 12, 2014 01:21 IST
Dengue is back in the city. Two cases have been reported till March this year, says data collected by the three municipal corporations.
Last year, four dengue cases were reported till March 30.
One case was reported from North Delhi Municipal Corporation area in March and the other was a person from outside Delhi, confirmed a corporation official.
The data, which was collated till March 29, 2014, states that 2,967 houses were found positive for mosquito breeding. The highest number, 2589 houses, was in South Delhi municipal areas, followed by North (256) and East (122).
Legal notices were issued to 3,848 individuals for creating an environment suitable for mosquito breeding and 26 were prosecuted.
The corporations conducted inspections for domestic breeding in over 81 lakh houses across the city and 5,774 houses were fumigated.
'People are first issued legal notices for creating an environment for mosquito breeding. If they further fail to control mosquito breeding in their area, they are penalised by charging a maximum fine of  Rs 500,' said Y S Mann, spokesperson of the North DMC.
The corporation data also shows that just one malaria case has been reported so far.
'Generally aedes mosquito, which is a host of dengue viral, dies in extreme temperature but there are hundreds of construction works going on in the city. These areas are prone to water collection and this may lead to the birth of aedes mosquitoes,' said Dr Anil Bansal, member, Delhi Medical Council.
Tags




http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2014-04-12/news/49080182_1_bird-flu-poultry-products-poultry-import

You are here: Home > Collections > Nepal
Poultry import from Nepal banned after bird flu reports
PTI Apr 12, 2014, 02.51PM IST
Tags:
Bird flu
(Besides, the animal husbandry…)
BAHRAICH: Import of poultry goods from Nepal has been banned here following reports of bird flu in some parts of the country.
Avian influenza or bird flu has been confirmed in Nepal's Etahari nagar palika and Koshi districts following which import of poultry products for the next six months has been banned as a precautionary measure, District magistrate Selva Kumari J said today.
Besides, the animal husbandry department and veterinary officials have been asked to maintain special alert in the rural areas, Selva said.
FEATURED ARTICLES




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Swine-flu-back-Delhi-sees-seasons-1st-case/articleshow/33791675.cms

Swine flu back, Delhi sees season’s 1st case
TNN | Apr 16, 2014, 12.08 AM IST
READ MORE Max hospital | Swine flu | Rockland Hospital | diabetes | influenze
RELATED
NEW DELHI: Not just the common flu, H1N1 influenza or swine flu is also in circulation in the city. Recently, a 52-year-old man was diagnosed positive for the infection at Max Hospital in Patparganj. Doctors said he had been referred from another hospital with severe chest infection and his condition did not improve significantly despite medications.
'We put him on Tamiflu medicines from the first day suspecting swine flu. Later, tests confirmed the diagnosis. The patient has been shifted to another hospital which is designated to treat such cases,' said Dr Mukesh Mehra, senior consultant, internal medicine at Max Hospital. He said the OPDs are flooded with patients suffering from flu-like illnesses which exhibit similar symptoms. 'Generally, the symptoms go away in four to five days so we don't advise H1N1 confirmatory tests for all,' the doctor added.
H1N1 influenza or swine flu had gained epidemic proportions in 2009. Health experts say while there is a need to be prepared, chances of swine flu manifesting into serious health problems in patients are rare. 'A large population has been exposed to the virus already and they have developed immunity. Also, we now have medicines and even preventive vaccines to fight it,' said Dr Charu Goel Sachdeva, senior consultant, internal medicine at Rockland Hospital.
H1N1 influenza is characterized by sore throat, body ache and respiratory problems like difficulty in breathing. In most cases, the symptoms are mild and subside within a few days. Dr Sachdeva said those who have difficulty in breathing, drowsiness or blood in the sputum must see a doctor. 'Elderly, people with diabetes, kidney problems, cancer patients and pregnant women should get themselves vaccinated for the influenza virus,' the doctor added.
'One should wash hands frequently to avoid infection. Also, stay away from infected persons,' said a senior doctor.
Dr Purushottam Lal, chairman of Metro group of hospitals, said that heart patients need to be extra careful as H1N1 influenza infection, if not diagnosed in time and treated, may prove fatal.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/Nerul-dengue-outbreak-may-affect-Candolim/articleshow/33874832.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Goa
Breaking News:
'Nerul dengue outbreak may affect Candolim'
TNN | Apr 18, 2014, 01.34 AM IST
My Saved articles
RELATED
Calangute: A large number of dengue cases have been reported at the Candolim primary health centre (PHC) in recent weeks, with most cases being reported from Verem and Nerul.
Candolim PHC medical officer Dr Doreen Noronha revealed that 21 cases have been detected since March 20 from some wards in Nerul and Verem, eight of these in the last four days.
Talking to media persons at the Candolim PHC on Thursday morning, Calangute MLA Michael Lobo expressed fears that the outbreak of dengue in neighbouring Nerul and Verem could spread to Candolim. 'If anything happens in Candolim, it will become international news and affect tourism in this area,' he said.
Except for one migrant, 30 of the dengue patients were locals. 'Insects that spread dengue breed in clean water which is stored for more than seven days, unlike the malaria-spreading mosquitoes which breed in stagnant water,' informed Noronha.
She urged people not to store water in drums and other places for long periods because dengue can kill a person if not treated immediately.
Sources at the Candolim PHC claim that many more dengue cases have been detected in the last few months. The hospital visiting committee which accompanied Lobo to the PHC suggested that the health workers who are spreading awareness of preventive measures, should also distribute leaflets printed in Kannada, as many migrants come from Karnataka. The leaflets are presently available in English, Hindi and Marathi.
The state government has started the process of renovating the Candolim PHC. Lobo said that the old PHC will be demolished and a new hospital with modern facilities will be built. The existing PHC will be shifted to four cottages next to the PHC, which were until recently occupied by the electricity department.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://www.ibnlive.com/news/india/40-children-fall-ill-after-eating-ice-cream-in-bihar-village-682365.html

40 children fall ill after eating ice-cream in Bihar village
Posted on: 09:45 PM IST Apr 19, 2014
More+
As many as 40 children fell ill on Saturday after eating ice-cream in a village in Bihar's Supaul district, officials said. Around half a dozen were admitted to hospital as their condition worsened while the others were discharged after initial treatment.
The incident took place at Vishnupur village under Pipra police station in Supaul, said district health official Mukesh Kumar, a district health official said.
As many as 40 children fell ill on Saturday after eating ice-cream in a village in Bihar's Supaul district, officials said. Around half a dozen were admitted to hospital as their condition worsened while the others were discharged after initial treatment.
#food poisoning #Vishnupur
According to police officials, the children, mostly minors, complained of stomach pains and started vomiting after eating ice-cream.
The sick were taken to a primary health centre and discharged after initial treatment, except half a dozen who were admitted to Sadar hospital for treatment after their condition deteriorated, Kumar said.
'It is a clear case of food poisoning,' he said.
Last month, eight children fell ill after eating ice-cream in a village in Saran district.
Last July, 23 children lost their lives after consuming a mid-day meal cooked in contaminated oil at the government primary school in Dharmasati Gandawan village of Saran district.




http://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/bengaluru/Rising-Heat-Behind-Surge-in-Chicken-Pox/2014/04/21/article2180669.ece

Email 0
The rising temperatures in the city have caused an increase in the chicken pox cases being reported in the hospitals. Doctors say the onset of summer is when the chickenpox virus starts becoming active, majorly affecting children.
Dr Sudha Menon, director of Internal Medicine, Fortis Hospital, said there have been cases but the situation has not taken epidemic proportions. “The chickenpox virus spreads more in warm weather, but otherwise, the disease is scattered over the year. There has been an increase in the number of cases over the last couple of weeks,” she said.
Dr Gangadhar Belavadi, pediatrician, Vani Vilas Hospital says the hospital gets one or two cases on an average. “There are not many cases. It is a common phenomena in this season,” he added. While the season is to blame for the spread of the disease, many doctors feel other factors could be at play too. “Kids may not be immunised against the disease and that is resulting in the increase,” said Dr Jagadish Chinnappa, consultant paediatrician, Manipal Hospitals.
Delay in treatment and not resorting to medication to manage it may be reasons for the disease reaching advanced stages. “Traditional ways of managing the problem is causing resistance to medication. Patients who have an older family member tend to be given home-based treatment and when it does not work, they come to doctors, but by then the disease would have accelerated. In such cases, we have to wait for it to heal as it is a self-limiting disease,” said Dr Menon. As soon as lesions appear, a doctor should be consulted within 24 to 48 hours for treatment to work, she added.
Also, mistaking rashes and foot and mouth disease as chicken-pox results in unwanted panic. “If parents notice a few lesions on their kids’ skin, as long as the child is eating and sleeping well, there is no need to worry,” said Dr Chinnappa. However, the case of complicated chicken pox calls for attention. If a child develops very high fever, lesions get infected along with being red or black in colour and with pus collection, bleeding through the nose or breathing problems, then they need to be taken to the doctor immediately,” Dr Chinnappa said. For short term management in newborn children or pregnant women, a chickenpox immunoglobulin has to be administered soon after exposure to an infected person, he added




http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/Cases-of-Malaria-Dengue-Up-in-Mlore/2014/04/21/article2180662.ece

Email 0
Mangalore City Corporation should take extra care in fighting vector-borne diseases as the number of registered Malaria cases have doubled since last year.
This year 1,480 cases of Malaria and 27 Dengue cases have been registered between January and March while it was 580 cases last year.
The district had registered 4,714 Malaria cases in the whole of 2013.
However, official sources say there is no reason to panic as it is due to increase in the reporting of cases from hospitals.
Earlier, only government officials were reporting the cases and now private hospitals are giving the reports to health department. So the statistics showed lesser figures earlier, the sources added.
District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Shivkumar attributed the increase in the vector borne diseases within the city limits to rise in construction  activity. He said at construction sites fresh water is collected in tanks where mosquitoes breed.
‘Unreliable Statistics’
However, Parisarasaktha Okkuta convener Suresh Shetty said the statistics provided by the Health Department is hard to believe as only 40 among the 60 hospitals in the district provide details on the vector-borne diseases.
The district health department has only a vague report, he said. The number of people ailing from Malaria or Dengue would be much more than the reported figures, he argued.




http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-130-bsf-personnel-fall-ill-due-to-food-poisoning-1980400

130 BSF personnel fall ill due to food poisoning
Sunday, 20 April 2014 - 10:15pm IST                                                                 | Place: West Garo (Meghalaya)                 | Agency: PTI
7
Comments
130 BSF personnel today fell ill due to suspected food poisoning and were admitted in different hospitals in Meghalaya's West Garo Hills district, officials said.
The BSF personnel, deployed in Dobasipara in Tura complained of severe pain in the abdomen just after having their breakfast, they said.
Of the 130, around 80 were rushed to a nearby mission hospital while the rest were admitted to a government civil hospital and other private hospitals in Tura, the officials said.
The doctors suspected the ailments were caused by food poisoning. The Dobasipara unit is the sector headquarters of the BSF in Garo Hills region.
The BSF authorities said they have asked for an expert team to investigate the matter.
A team from the Guwahati Frontier headquarters of the border guards will arrive in Tura tomorrow to investigate into the matter, Abhimanyu Singh, a senior BSF official in charge of the team, told PTI.
'We are currently reviewing the incident and are collecting the samples of food provided to the jawans,' he said.
The official said conditions of the affected personnel are not critical but they are under close observation.
7




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ranchi/Docs-alert-after-first-dengue-case-reported-in-Ranchi/articleshow/34041471.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Ranchi
Breaking News:
Docs alert after first dengue case reported in Ranchi
TNN | Apr 21, 2014, 02.08 PM IST
READ MORE Ranchi dengue | DENGUE
RELATED
RANCHI: With the onset of summers, the first dengue case of the year was detected in the state on Sunday. Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi tested a reserve force personnel positive after he was admitted to an isolation ward at the hospital with high fever and vomiting on April 15.
R Duriapandi (30), a Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB) 49th Battalion jawan and a resident of Madurai, Tamil Nadu, complained of high fever during his deployment at Taimara area of Bundu, 29km east of Ranchi.
But the hospital authorities said the patient is out of danger. Hospital staff on duty added that although they receive 10 cases of high fever and vomiting every week, Duriapandi was the first person tested positive this year. 'Last year, the first case of dengue was detected in August. This year, the first case was reported early,' said the sister in charge of the isolation ward at the hospital.
While Rims received 100 cases till December last year, there were no deaths. According to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Program (NVDCP), 161 cases were registered across the state in 2013 against 75,454 nationally.
As many as 1,203 cases have been registered nationally in 2014, with Kerala and Tamil Nadu recording 380 and 339 cases, respectively.
'We are yet to get the detailed report of the person tested positive,' said Dr Pradeep Baskey of the NVDCP state chapter. State malaria office sounded alarm for the city residents. 'Months of April and May are transmission months and urban residents should clean stagnant water at regular intervals,' Baskey said. 'Air coolers are the breeding grounds for mosquitoes causing dengue and so should be cleaned regularly,' he added.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/Chennai-has-reported-100-dog-bites-every-day-since-2011rabies-has-claimed-26-lives/articleshow/34016521.cms

Chennai has reported 100 dog bites every day since 2011; rabies has claimed 26 lives
Christin Mathew Philip Christin Mathew Philip,TNN | Apr 21, 2014, 02.15 AM IST
READ MORE rabies | Rama Rao | Don Williams | Blue Cross | Dogs
RELATED
CHENNAI: An after-dinner stroll may be good for digestion but could be more hazardous to health than anyone in the city has imagined: People report more than 100 cases of dog bites every day.
Around 1.13 lakh people reported dog bites and rabies claimed 26 lives since 2011, the data sourced through an RTI application from Corporation of Chennai shows.
Despite the civic body's best efforts to cover up cases of rabies and stifle government and private hospitals that may reveal the statistics, the truth is now out and it is alarming.
The number of people who died of rabies more than doubled from 2011-12 to 2012-13, from five to 11. In 2013-14, 10 people died of rabies.
According to the civic body's records, residents reported 38,454 dog bites in 2011-12, 37,937 in 2012-13 and 37,155 in 2013-14.
Health officials attribute the rise in the number of cases to increased awareness and reporting of instances. Experts, however, believe that is a lame attempt to fob off the facts instead of treating the stray menace as a crisis.
Statistics show that there has been no drop in cases of dog bites even though the civic body, in coordination with three animal rights NGOs, sterilised 63,216 strays since 2011.
Not surprisingly, the civic body says it does not have a fix on the actual numbers of strays in the city.
However, it did provide data for complaints about stray dogs, which show that the number has doubled from 4,689 in 2011-12 to 9,290 in 2012-13. Though civic body catches an average of 22,000 strays every year, strays breed in large numbers.
Corporation officials say the problem is mostly confined to the fringe areas. But residents of most localities say it is endemic. Poor disposal of garbage and an increase in roadside eateries provides enough food for the 50,000-plus strays in the city.
People from various neighbourhoods, especially those where garbage disposal is a problem, may be at threat from ferocious, biting strays, but no one has it as bad as people who have to commute by motorbike or bicycle at night.
Nanganallur resident V Rama Rao said eateries and residents in the neighbourhood dump leftovers in an open ground where stray dogs feed on the waste. 'The dogs chase two-wheelers at night, causing accidents, and several cases of dog bites,' he says.
Animal activists say dogs mostly bite when provoked by people. 'Most people don't respect the rights of stray dogs or any other animal that lives on the road,' even though it is the best companion of the human beings. And, I always request public to feed dogs and make them friends but many of them treat them as enemies' says Blue Cross of India general manager Don Williams.
He says there had been a gradual decrease in the dog population from, but the numbers are on the rise again.
'Leftovers from overflowing garbage bins attract stray dogs. The civic body is responsible for both the failure to dispose garbage properly and also the stray dog menace,' says NGO Exnora International joint general secretary R Govindaraj.
Experts say registration of breeders and compulsory licensing of dog owners is a long-term solution to the problem. But few pet owners have a licence, with the civic body issuing only 1,569 licences in 2013-14.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.




http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ludhiana/Malaria-dengue-cases-surface-Ludhiana-municipal-corporation-starts-fogging-in-just-2-areas/articleshow/34071776.cms

You are here: News Home  »  City  » Ludhiana
Breaking News:
Malaria, dengue cases surface, Ludhiana municipal corporation starts fogging in just 2 areas
Chitvan Vinayak Chitvan Vinayak,TNN | Apr 22, 2014, 11.03 AM IST
READ MORE malaria | Ludhiana Municipal Corporation | fogging
RELATED
LUDHIANA: At a time when three cases of malaria and a case of dengue have already been reported in hospitals, the Ludhiana municipal corporation has not started the fogging process in entire city.
Two cases of malaria were reported from the outskirts, another was reported from a slum area in the city.
Though the MC had decided to begin the fogging process from April 15, the process was started in high-risk areas including slum areas as well as Sarabha Nagar, a posh colony of the area. 'We will start fogging in the entire city from next month as we thought of beginning with high-risk areas first', said AS Sekhon, chief, health and sanitation wing, MC.
But with a dengue case from Haibowal area of the city being reported, it has raised questions on the timings of authorities. 'Mosquitoes do not identify an area before biting residents. The authorities need to immediately start fogging across the city', said Honey, a resident of Haibowal.
Meanwhile, talking about the role of fogging machines that were allotted to city councillors, Parminder Mehta, spokesman, Congress councillors, said though the machines were allotted, they fail to meet the actual purpose as there are no proper arrangements made for the repair as well as replacement of these machines. 'Some machines developed problems last year. While few are in the same position, others were repaired after a long time', added Mehta.
Also, another councillor on the condition of anonymity said that the fogging done by the MC is not affective as it is not done at proper intervals. 'Fogging is mere an eyewash as it is not done properly and the cases of malaria and dengue still surface. It is the people who need to take care of the surroundings themselves', said the councillor.
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.


